Agniane Stealer | Zscaler ThreatLabz
zscaler.com/blogs/security-research/agniane-stealer-dark-webs-crypto-threat

Introduction
Agniane Stealer fraudulently takes credentials, system information, and session details from browsers, tokens, and file transferring tools.
Agniane Stealer also heavily targets cryptocurrency extensions and wallets. Once it obtains the sensitive data, Agniane Stealer transfers that
stolen data to command-and-control [C&C] servers, where threat actors can act upon the stolen information.  

We believe Agniane Stealer belongs to the Malware-as-a-Service (MaaS) platform Cinoshi Project, which was discovered in early 20231, and
much of its code infrastructure is modeled after the platform. Its close relationship to Cinoshi Project means Agniane Stealer has been
available for sale on several dark web forums. The threat actors responsible for Agniane Stealer utilize packers to maintain and regularly
update the malware’s functionality and evasions features.

In this technical blog post, we cover:

Key Takeaways
Agniane Stealer Promoted on Telegram
Relationship to Cinoshi Project
Agniane Stealer User Interface
Technical Analysis
Stealer Capabilities
C&C Communication
Conclusion
Zscaler Coverage
Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
Crypto Extensions & Wallets

Key Takeaways
Stealing Capabilities: Agniane Stealer is an information stealer that takes stored credentials from web browsers, Telegram sessions,
Discord tokens, Steam, WinSCP, and Filezilla sessions. In addition, It saves a screenshot of the user’s desktop, quickly collecting
OpenVPN profiles and system information.
Crypto Hungry: Agniane Stealer is a prolific cryptocurrency data exfiltrator with extensive support for nearly 70+ crypto extensions and
10+ crypto wallets.
Evasion Techniques: Agniane Stealer implements numerous methods to detect anti-analysis software like malware sandboxes,
emulators, VirtualBox, and other analysis tools.
Availability: Agniane Stealer is part of Cinoshi Project - a MaaS that offers services and subscriptions on the dark web.

Agniane Stealer Promoted on Telegram
During our analysis, we found a Telegram channel promoting and selling Agniane Stealer. The Telegram channel owner posts consistently
about feature lists, updates, and pricing. We speculate the owner of the Telegram channel is the malware author. 

The following Agniane Stealer feature list was found on the Telegram channel:

“The stealer is written in C# It loads the libraries used; build weight is 419 KB.
Perfectly crypted by mass-crypters, such as EasyCrypter, exe2pack, PackLab and others.
Supports stealing passwords and cookies from browsers based on Chromium and Gecko.
Support for more than 70+ crypto extensions from browsers, as well as more than 10+ crypto wallets.
Collection of Telegram sessions, Discord tokens, Steam sessions, Winscp and Filezilla sessions.
Saving screenshots from all monitors with detailed information about them.
Collection of all information about the victim's computer.
Convenient filter for domains that are important to you; search in passwords and cookies of your domains and record the result.
Collection of all possible OpenVPN profiles.
Collecting a list of all installed applications on the computer.
The ability to prohibit the launch of the build on virtual computers, emulators (configurable on the panel).
Protection of your build from running on Virustotal, AnyRun and similar servers (configurable on the panel).
Protection against repeated logs, as well as protection against empty logs (configurable on the panel).
Collection of files from the user's desktop and documents (file extensions are configured on the panel).
Log collection is carried out in memory, without using a disk to store materials from the log”

1/13



The following information regarding price was also found:

“💎 The cost of our styler

Steeler monthly subscription — $50

Three-month subscription - $120 $150 (20% off)

Lifetime subscriptions are not for sale and never will be for sale!”

Relationship to Cinoshi Project
This screen indicates that Agniane Stealer is most likely part of the Cinoshi Project.

Figure 1: Project information indicating that Agniane Stealer is very likely part of the Cinoshi Project

Agniane Stealer User Interface
In the following section, we illustrate the web experience when interacting with Agniane Stealer on the dark web. The screens below are
available through the same Telegram channel we mentioned above.

Builder Tab
 Below, you can see the Builder tab showing builder information. With this tab, cyber criminals can build custom variants of Agniane Stealer.

Figure 2: Builder tab showing builder information

2/13



Home Tab
In the screenshot below, you can see the Agniane Stealer Home tab. The interface encourages you to follow the Telegram channel in case
the domain is blocked. In addition, this screen indicates the status of the gate server.

Figure 3: Home tab showing instructions and status 

Logs Tab
On this screen, you can see a list of victim logs from all around the world. The list includes details relevant to a threat actor like Passwords,
Wallets, and Cookies.

Figure 4: Logs tab showing victim logs

Settings Tab

Stealer settings
This section allows a threat actor using Agniane Stealer to configure settings in a way that facilitates their nefarious intentions. A threat actor
can: disable logs, extend libraries, and even prevent the malware from running during security inspection and analysis using anti-analysis
techniques.

3/13



Figure 5: Stealer settings in Settings tab

Telegram notification settings
This screen shows you how to set up Telegram notifications on your system and it lists various custom variables that correspond to relevant
stolen data: number of passwords in the log, username, etc.

Figure 6: Telegram notification settings in Settings tab

Fake-error settings
This settings option also functions as a form of protection for Agniane Stealer. Enabling fake error messages allows threat actors to remain
undetected for longer periods of time.

4/13



Figure 7: Fake-error settings in Settings tab

Parsers Tab
This screen displays options to parse victim logs. A threat actor can use a Discord token or use a login pass (feature under development).

Figure 8: Parsers tab showing options

Technical Analysis
Agniane Stealer, like many other information stealers, is written in C#. Our team determined that the Agniane Stealer sample under analysis
is the first version of the build and was not packed or obfuscated, but the latest version has undergone packing and obfuscation. 

Upon execution, Agniane Stealer generates a random 32-bit string using the character set “A-Z0-9”. The generated random string is used as
the sub-folder name, which is created in the %TEMP% folder. This is where the stolen data is kept.

After that, the Agniane Stealer extracts a C&C URL (“https[ : ]//central-cee-doja [.] ru/”) from a hardcoded Base64 string.

Anti-Analysis Techniques

Checks for debugger 
The malware sample calls the CheckRemoteDebuggerPresent Windows API to check if it's being run in a debugger. If Agniane Stealer
detects a debugger, then it will exit from memory and stop running, making debugging harder. 

5/13



Verifies tick counts 
Agniane Stealer uses an emulator program to record the initial tick count, proceeds to sleep, and upon awakening, measures the tick count
once more. If the difference between the initial and final tick counts is less than 10L, the program returns True, exits from memory, and stops
running.

Detects analysis tools
Agniane Stealer checks the memory for analysis tools. If it finds an analysis tool running, Agniane Stealer will exit. Our analysis uncovered
the following analysis tools:

Processhacker
Netstat
Netmon
Tcpview
Wireshark
Filemon
Regmon
cain

Locates user’s system
Hosting providers employ various security measures for malware detection. It is in the interest of the threat actors to remain undetected.
Thus, the future course of execution is determined based on the geolocation data retrieved from the server using the request  hxxp[:]//ip-
api[.]com/line/fields=hosting. If the victim’s machine belongs to a hosting provider, execution is terminated.

Obscures identity with legitimate DLL handles 
Agniane Stealer tries to obtain the handle of several DLLs using the GetModuleHandle function. 

If successful, Agniane Stealer uses the innocuous DLL handle to hide itself from potential discovery. The malware targets the following DLLs:

SbieDll
SxIn
Sf2snxhk
cmdvrt32

Identifies virtual machines
Agniane Stealer utilizes the WMI queries to detect whether it is running inside a virtual environment and terminates execution if True.

QUERY DETAILS
Select * from If Manufacturer is Microsoft corporation and Model is VIRTUAL return True or if either Manufacturer
Win32_ComputerSystem contains vmware or Model is VirtualBox return True, and malware exits from memory.

SELECT * FROM Retrieves information about video controllers (also known as graphics cards) on a Windows computer. Uses
Win32_VideoController the GetPropertyValue method to compare names with VMware and VBox. If a match is found, then True is

returned and Agniane Stealer quits execution.

Stealer Capabilities 
Agniane Stealer possesses several form-grabbing capabilities. Let’s dive into those.

Sidesteps dependencies
Upon execution, Agniane Stealer, with a compact sample size, adeptly operates on both 32 and 64-bit systems, sidestepping any reliance on
pre-existing dependencies. 

Intriguingly, it dynamically retrieves a set of 5 DLLs from its C&C servers, leveraging legitimate third-party DLLs to enhance its functionalities
and capabilities. It employs the following:

SQLite.dll
SQLite.EF6.dll
SQLite.Linq.dll
SQLite.Interop.dll(x86 & x64bit)

Steals from the following areas:

6/13



AREAS DETAILS
Telegram Steals user tokens for logged-in Discord and Steam sessions, and OpenVPN profiles; sends data to threat actors.
and Steam Tries to search Telegram software under the “\\AppData\\Roaming\\Telegram” directory. If found, Agniane Stealer
Sessions steals Telegram Sessions  and archives it.

Tries to locate the Telegram process. If found, the malware kills the process and grabs all the Telegram files except
emojis and user_data. Then, Agniane Stealer archives all remaining directories.

Browser Agniane Stealer targets login data, history, and web data from the following browsers:
cookies

OperaGX
Chrome
Opera
FireFox
Vivaldi
Brave
Edge
Yandex
Chromium

Domains Agniane Stealer tries to harvest login credentials and cookies from following domains:

VK.com
facebook.com
instagram.com
mail.ru

If any passwords are found in the domains listed above, then Agniane Stealer places them into the Important Detects.txt file
and archives them.

SSH File Agniane Stealer pilfers WinSCP to collect Hostname, username, and password from all sessions by traversing through
Transfer Software\\Martin Prikryl\\WinSCP 2\\Sessions registry entry.
Protocol

Filezilla Agniane Stealer reads FileZilla\\recentservers.xml and searches for the <server> tag. If available, then Agniane Stealer
FTP grabs Hostname, username, and password. If the XML path was not found, then Agniane Stealer logs that it was unable to
Software find the FileZilla session.

Computer Agniane Stealer gets the external IP address of the victim's machine using https://ipwho.is/?output=xml.
System

In addition, Agniane Stealer collects victims Windows version using SELECT * FROM win32_operatingsystem. Then, it
obtains the bit version of the machine using Windows Registry and checks the value. If the value matches, then it is x86 but
if it doesn’t then that indicates a x64bit machine.

Uses WMI to collect
Installed Antiviruses: Collects all installed antivirus software with the WMI query Select * from AntivirusProduct.
GPUName: Using WMI query SELECT * FROM Win32_VideoController and GetEnumerator() method Compares with "VMware SVGA
3D"
CPU name: Using WMI query SELECT * FROM Win32_Processor tries to access the CPU name of the victim's machine.

Captures a screenshot
Agniane Stealer captures a screenshot of the victim’s desktop using Bitmap.

Checks RAM
By querying WMI to Select * From Win32_ComputerSystem, Agniane Stealer calculates RAM allocated to the victim's machine. 

Exfiltrates data
Agniane Stealer enumerates the users Desktop and the Documents folder for the files with .txt,.doc,.mafile,.rdp, and .db extension. The
discovered files are then copied to the previously created subfolder under the %TEMP% location.

Finds installed applications
Agniane Stealer collects all applications installed on the victim’s machine by querying the Registry Key
SOFTWARE\\Microsoft\\Windows\\CurrentVersion\\Uninstall. Then, it stores that information in the Installed Apps.txt file, as you can see in
the image below.

7/13



Figure 9: Example information collected by Agniane Stealer

Agniane Stealer keeps a record of its actions in a file named execution log.txt, which documents all the operations executed and associated
information.

Exfiltrates crypto data
In addition to form-grabbing, Agniane Stealer also utilizes clipper qualities to exfiltrate cryptocurrency data. 

Agniane Stealer is a prolific cryptocurrency data exfiltrator with extensive support for nearly 70+ crypto extensions and 10+ crypto wallets.
See the Crypto Extension & Wallet table at the bottom of this blog for a complete list.

How it works
Agniane Stealer uploads all the exfiltrated data to: 

hxxps[:]//central-cee-doja.ru/TEST.php?
ownerid=REPLACEUSER1D&buildid=spriteuser&countp=2&countc=29&username=saturn&country=IN&ipaddr=XX.XX.XX.XX&BSSID=XXXXXX0

After uploading the stolen data to a remote server, the Agniane Stealer removes its traces from the victim’s system by deleting the sub-folder.

We observed that the latest version of the Agniane Stealer uses ConfuserEx Protector. Also, the recent variant employs more obfuscation
techniques when compared to the earlier version, which makes it harder for security modules to detect. 

In the images below, Figure 10 is from the earlier version of Agniane Stealer where the code is human-readable, and Figure 11 is from the
latest version of Agniane Stealer where the same code is obfuscated through ConfuserEx Protector. The Figure 12 is showing the de-
obfuscated code.

Human-readable code

8/13



Figure 10: Human-readable Agniane Stealer sample code

Obfuscated code

Figure 11: Obfuscated Agniane Stealer code sample

Deobfuscated code

9/13



Figure 12: Deobfuscated Agniane Stealer code sample

C&C Communication
In the case of Agniane Stealer, threat actors are using a command-and-control (C&C) server to move and store stolen data. A C&C server is
a system controlled by the cybercriminals who distribute stealer malware to take sensitive data that allows them to manage and control
compromised devices remotely. 

In the image below, you can see the:

POST Request 
Host Name
ZIP file payload PK header indicates the transmission of an archive file

Figure 13: Data stolen by Agniane Stealer and sent to C&C server

From here, Agniane Stealer downloads the SQLite dependency DLL, which is shown in the image below.

10/13



Figure 14: SQLite dependency DLL files are downloaded

Conclusion
As a purchasable service on the dark web, Agniane Stealer is a formidable addition to the Cinoshi Project and its arsenal of malware.
Agniane Stealer’s ability to discreetly gather credentials and cryptocurrency details, and transfer that stolen data to command-and-control
(C&C) servers poses a significant threat in the cybersecurity landscape. Agniane Stealer looks for various types of anti-analysis software to
avoid detection.

Threat actors are constantly selling new malware services on the dark web and adding features to MaaS platforms. Our insights from
analyzing Agniane Stealer demonstrate the importance of staying alert, ongoing research, and monitoring. 

The Zscaler ThreatLabz team continuously monitors for new threats and shares its findings with the wider community.

Zscaler Coverage
Zscaler's multilayered cloud security platform detects indicators at various levels. During the investigation of this campaign, Zscaler Sandbox
played a crucial role in analyzing the behavior of various files.  Zscaler ensured coverage for the payloads seen in these attacks via advanced
threat signatures.

Figure 15: The Zscaler Cloud Sandbox successfully detected the malware.

11/13



 
To learn more about coverage, visit the Zscaler Sandbox webpage or Win32.PWS.Agniane in the Threat Library, where we list all threats and
threat information.

Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
Agniane Stealer indicators of compromise

MD5 HASH VALUES DESCRIPTION
522101881b87ccda4d78fac30e951d19 Agniane Stealer

0d20e90382f881116201ac7c9298aab6 Agniane Stealer

a1b5e20b58d23b26f640f252ece0891b Agniane Stealer

5C0F65523F7ECB773C599B59D5CC3578 Agniane Stealer

a2b20120a92c3de445b0b384a494ed39 Agniane Stealer

d811a57bc0e8b86b449277f9ffb50cc9 Agniane Stealer

b62ef0920a545f547d6cd3cd2abd60d2 Agniane Stealer

Central-cee-doja.ru Host Name

Crypto Extensions & Wallets
Tronlink Extension
Browser Extensions
Nifty Wallet Extension
Metamask Wallet Extension
Math Wallet Extension
Coinbase Extension
BinanceChain Extension
Brave Wallet Extension
Guarda Wallet Extension
Equal Wallet Extension
BitApp Wallet Extension
iWallet Extension
Wombat Extension
Authenticator Extension
EOS Authenticator Extension
BrowserPass Extension
MYKI Extension
Splikity Extension
CommonKey Extension
Zoho Vault Extension
Norton Password Manager Extension
Avira Password Manager Extension
Trezor Password Manager Extension
MEW CX Extension
Coin98 Extension
NeoLine Extension
Terra Station Extension
Keplr Extension
Sollet Extension
ICONex Extension
KHC Extension
TezBox Extension
Byone Extension
OneKey Extension
Trust Wallet Extension
MetaWallet Extension
Exodus Extension
Jaxx Liberty Extension

12/13



Atomic Wallet Extension
Electrum Extension
Mycelium Extension
Coinomi Extension
GreenAddress Extension
Edge Extension
BRD Extension
Samourai Wallet Extension
Copay Extension
Bread Extension
Airbitz Extension
KeepKey Extension
Trezor Extension
Ledger Live Extension
Ledger Wallet Extension
Bitbox Extension
Digital Bitbox Extension
YubiKey Extension
Google Authenticator Extension
Microsoft Authenticator Extension
Authy Extension
Duo Mobile Extension
OTP Auth Extension
FreeOTP Extension
Aegis Authenticator Extension
LastPass Authenticator Extension
Dashlane Extension
Keeper Extension
RoboForm Extension
KeePass Extension
KeePassXC Extension
Bitwarden Extension
NordPass Extension
LastPass Extension
Zcash Client
Armory Client
Bytecoin Client
Jaxx Client
Exodus Client
Ethereum Client
Electrum Client
AtomicWallet Client
Guarda Client
Coinomi Client

References

*1 = Agniane Stealer was first discovered by @MalGamy12