Amazon Web Services: Exploring the Cost of Exfil
aon.com/cyber-solutions/aon_cyber_labs/amazon-web-services-exploring-the-cost-of-exfil/

Introduction
Stroz Friedberg is often called upon by organizations to investigate matters involving
unintended or unauthorized access to Amazon Web Services (“AWS”). When threat actors
impact AWS or more particularly Amazon Simple Storage Service (“S3”), they always leave a
trace – but the difficult part is trying to identify the who, what, where, when and why. Also,
just so it is said, threat actors are not the only ones causing or exploiting issues within AWS.
Stroz Friedberg has also linked what appears to be malicious activity to internal
misconfigurations or mistakes by internal employees.

This article will demonstrate how Stroz Friedberg uses a free and easily accessible AWS tool
known as Cost Explorer to triage AWS during investigations. Cost Explorer’s primary
purpose is to provide a visual representation of AWS cost and usage over time. As is usually
the case in forensics and investigations, data intended for one use can provide valuable
information to help fill in gaps in a storyline/timeline. In this case, Cost Explorer, while
intended to provide a view of costs associated with using AWS resources, can also be used
to spot unintended/unauthorized activity within an AWS environment or to triage a particular
timeframe of interest. In the event you see anomalous activity, please contact Stroz
Friedberg. It is imperative that you have internal or external experts working with your team
in the event unintended or unauthorized activity presents itself.

Background
AWS S3 is a scalable, easy-to-use storage solution that many organizations leverage for a
range of use cases, such as hosting a website, storing backups, archiving data, and data
analytics. When organizations utilize the cloud to host their infrastructure or services, they
must invest in adequate risk controls and cyber resilience strategies. That said, when
misconfigurations or vulnerabilities are present in AWS S3, threat actors may find and exploit
them. Contact Stroz Friedberg to learn more on how we can help you design, and secure
AWS cloud services.

How to search for possible unintended & unauthorized AWS activity
Stroz Friedberg often leverages AWS Cost Explorer to triage AWS incidents in the
preliminary stages of our AWS investigations.

So, what is AWS Cost Explorer?

1/10



AWS Cost Explorer is an embedded AWS tool that enables one to visualize cost and
resource usage within your AWS account. In other words, if one were curious why their AWS
bill increased since the last billing cycle, AWS Cost Explorer can help. Data stored within
Cost Explorer is retained for 12 months by default. Below is a step-by-step process to
leverage this historical data to identify possible exfiltration events within AWS S3.

Step 1 – Find Cost Explorer

To access the Cost Explorer visualizer tool, search for and select “Cost Explorer” in the
search bar of the AWS web console or navigate to the direct link here. This will take you to
the AWS Cost Management homepage. On the left side bar, select “Cost Explorer.” You will
be presented with a dashboard like Figure 1 below:

 

Figure 1. Cost Explorer landing page
Step 2 – Use Cost Explorer

AWS Cost Explorer is designed with the capability for the user to filter on multiple attributes
which presents them with an interactive visualization of data which is typically camouflaged
and/or not easily accessible. One powerful feature of Cost Explorer is one can dive in on
custom time periods with various levels of specificity and granularity.

To perform an AWS S3 triage analysis with AWS Cost Explorer:

1. Specify the appropriate time period and set the interval to “Daily”.

2/10



 

Figure 2. Timeframe and Interval filters in Cost Explorer
2. Set a filter for “S3” in the “Service” filter category.

 

Figure 3. Cost Explorer filtered on service “S3”
3. Set the “Usage Type Group” filter to “S3: Data Transfer – Internet (Out)”.

3/10



 

Figure 4 Cost Explorer filtered on Usage Type Group “S3: Data Transfer – Internet (Out)”
The goal of this analysis is to find an abnormality in outgoing AWS S3 data transfer activity
based on historical usage within the AWS account, then determine if the activity is the result
of an expected business function/behavior. In that effort, the graph below (Figure 5) shows
two areas of interest:

1. The top bar graph labeled “Costs ($)” provides an overview of the cost of the AWS S3
service per day.

2. The second bar graph labeled “Usage (GB)” provides an overview of the amount of
data in gigabytes (“GB”) that were transferred per day.

4/10



 

Figure 5. Example of a spike in data transferred outbound to the internet in AWS S3
Looking at the Usage graph, there is a clear spike in data usage on December 3, 2021. On
this day there was a total of 300.00 GB transferred out to the internet. Compare this to the
historical usage over the last six months, and it is clear a transfer of this size is abnormal
behavior.

Additionally, to discover more about what happened on December 3, 2021, Cost Explorer
can be further filtered on specific API (“Application Programming Interfaces”) operations such
as “GetObject”, even when Object Access logging is not enabled. To do this apply the same
filters as above, but instead of grouping by “Service” group by “API Operation” as shown by
the top arrow in Figure 6.

 

Figure 6. Cost Explorer filtered on API Operation

5/10



The bottom arrows in Figure 6 above indicate that the 300 GB worth of data was transferred
using the “GetObject” API call, which is again a clear anomaly based on the other 6 months
of historical “GetObject” usage. While Cost Explorer will not provide information regarding
what specific objects were downloaded, a forensic investigator now has a more definitive
time frame to conduct further investigation.

Stroz Friedberg used this same methodology to determine if data from an unintended
publicly accessible AWS S3 bucket was exfiltrated. Review of the Cost Explorer Usage graph
(Figure 7) revealed a spike in data transfer on May 16, 2022. On this date, 26.17 GB worth of
data was transferred out to the internet. Compare this with the average daily transfer rate of
just under 1 GB over the last 12 months, and it was clear that May 16, 2022 was a date of
interest. While granular object-level logging was not enabled on this particular AWS S3
bucket to investigate further, the bucket size was just over 26 GB.  Using this, Stroz
Friedberg was able to make a reasonable inference that all objects in this AWS S3 bucket
were likely exfiltrated.

 

Figure 7. Another example of a large outbound data transfer spike in AWS S3
The same methodology can be applied for other AWS services such as Elastic Compute
Cloud (“EC2”) (shown in Figure 8) and Relational Database Service (“RDS”).

6/10



 

Figure 8. Cost Explorer detailing an anomalous external data transfer in the EC2 service on
January 21 and 22, 2022

Additional Use Cases for AWS Cost Explorer
Validating Threat Actor Exfiltration Claims
In matters involving unauthorized access to data within AWS, it is not uncommon for a threat
actor to attempt to extort the affected organization. Stroz Friedberg has seen this firsthand,
especially with regards to AWS S3 and RDS services. Cost Explorer can be used to validate
a threat actor’s claim of data exfiltration. For instance, if the threat actor claims to have
exfiltrated 250 GB worth of data from AWS S3 and Cost Explorer shows a data transfer
approximately 250 GB in size around the time of interest that is unaccounted for in legitimate
business activity, the company can infer that the threat actor likely has that volume of data
and can approach interactions with the threat actor accordingly.

Identifying Anomalous Service Usage
AWS administrators may find regularly checking Cost Explorer each month useful for
identifying anomalous behavior such as new service usage. For example, if your
organization does not use AWS’s Route 53 DNS (“Domain Name System”) service, then
sudden usage of this service may indicate a threat actor using the environment for hosting
command and control (“C2”) infrastructure.

7/10



 

Figure 9. Cost Explorer filtered on Route 53 service
Another example of anomalous service usage may be a spike in AWS Lambda activity.
Lambda is a serverless computing platform that can run code for virtually any type of
application. Threat actors have increasingly targeted Lambda to run code associated with
mining cryptocurrency.

Identifying New Region Usage
A common technique threat actors use to evade detection when compromising an AWS
environment, is to spin up resources in an AWS region that is not being used. Cost Explorer
can help detect suspicious new region usage by simply applying “Region” to the Group by
feature within the Cost Explorer visualization tool.

 

Figure 10. Cost Explorer grouped by “Region”

AWS Cost Explorer Limitations
While AWS Cost Explorer can be very useful, it is important to understand its limitations and
gaps. For one, cost metrics within Cost Explorer may be affected by free tier service usage,
volume-based discounts, reserved instance contracts, and services which are billed monthly
or annually. Additionally, Cost Explorer may take up to 24 hours to reflect costs. As such, it is

8/10



not a valid tool or replacement for real time monitoring of an AWS environment. For real time
cost anomaly analysis and alerting, one may consider using AWS’s Cost Anomaly Detection
service.

Conclusion
Stroz Friedberg continues to see an increase in the number of investigations that involve
cloud services such as Amazon Web Services. Digital forensics often involves leveraging
existing artifacts and data in creative and innovative ways, viewing them from a different
perspective from what they were intended for to solve often-complex matters. In that vein,
AWS Cost Explorer has resulted in many quick wins for Stroz Friedberg’s investigators, and
it is a valuable data point that can be leveraged to look for anomalous activity within your
own AWS environment or fill in gaps in an investigation of such an environment. If you are
seeing anomalous behavior in your AWS environment Stroz Friedberg’s team of experienced
investigators can help determine the scope and root cause of the activity.

Author: Andre Maccarone, John Ailes
Special Thanks: Chapin Bryce  
October 6, 2022  
©Aon plc 2022  

This material has been prepared for informational purposes only and should not be relied on for any other purpose. You
should consult with your own professional advisors or IT specialists before implementing any recommendation or
following the guidance provided herein. Further, the information provided and the statements expressed are not intended
to address the circumstances of any particular individual or entity. Although we endeavor to provide accurate and timely
information and use sources that we consider reliable, there can be no guarantee that such information is accurate as of
the date it is received or that it will continue to be accurate in the future. The examples provided in this article are not
based upon an actual Stroz/Aon client, but was provided for illustrative purposes only.
 
About Cyber Solutions
Cyber security services a re offered by Stroz Friedberg Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates. Stroz Friedberg is part of Aon’s
Cyber Solutions which offers holistic cyber risk management, unsurpassed investigative skills, and proprietary
technologies to help clients uncover and quantify cyber risks, protect critical assets, and recover from cyber incidents.

Cyber security services offered by Stroz Friedberg Inc. and its affiliates. Insurance products
and services offered by Aon Risk Insurance Services West, Inc., Aon Risk Services Central,
Inc., Aon Risk Services Northeast, Inc., Aon Risk Services Southwest, Inc., and Aon Risk
Services, Inc. of Florida and their licensed affiliates. Aon UK Limited is authorised and
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in respect of insurance distribution services.
FP.AGRC.238.JJ The following products or services are not regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority: 
• Cyber risk service s provided by Aon UK Limited and its affiliates 
• Cyber security services provided by Stroz Friedberg Limited and  its affiliates.

Copyright 2021 Aon plc. All Rights Reserved.

9/10



Cyber security services offered by Stroz Friedberg Inc. and its affiliates. Insurance products
and services offered by Aon Risk Insurance Services West, Inc., Aon Risk Services Central,
Inc., Aon Risk Services Northeast, Inc., Aon Risk Services Southwest, Inc., and Aon Risk
Services, Inc. of Florida and their licensed affiliates. Aon UK Limited is authorised and
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in respect of insurance distribution services.
FP.AGRC.238.JJ The following products or services are not regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority: 
• Cyber risk service s provided by Aon UK Limited and its affiliates 
• Cyber security services provided by Stroz Friedberg Limited and  its affiliates.