APT34 Unleashes New Wave of Phishing Attack with
Variant of SideTwist Trojan

nsfocusglobal.com/apt34-unleashes-new-wave-of-phishing-attack-with-variant-of-sidetwist-trojan/

August 30, 2023

August 30, 2023 | NSFOCUS

Recently, NSFOCUS Security Labs captured a new APT34 phishing attack. During the
campaign, APT34 attackers disguised as a marketing services company called GGMS
launched attacks against enterprise targets and released a variant of SideTwist Trojan to
achieve long-term control of the victim host.

Introduction to APT34
APT34, also known as OilRig or Helix Kitten, is an APT group suspected of coming from
Iran. The group has been active since 2014, conducting cyber espionage and cyber
sabotage operations against countries in the Middle East. Its main targets include multiple
industries such as finance, government, energy, chemical industry and telecommunications.

APT34 has a high level of attack technology, can design different intrusion methods for
different types of targets, and has supply chain attack capability. After this group’s main
attack tools were disclosed in a leak in 2019, it began to develop new attack tools, including
RDAT, SideTwist and Saitama.

Related links:

Analysis of File Disclosure by APT34

Analysis of File Disclosure by APT34 APT34 Event Analysis Report

Decoy Information

1/8



The decoy file used by APT34 this time is called “GGMS Overview.doc”, and the document’s
body shows an introduction to a so-called “Ganjavi Global Marketing Services” company, as
shown in the figure below.

Figure 1 Decoy document used by APT34 in this attack
The introduction claimed that the company was able to provide worldwide marketing
services. Apparently, it targets enterprises.

There are twice upload records, located in the United States, demonstrating that APT34 was
actually targeted at United States businesses.

Attack Process
In this event, APT34 followed an attack process that has been in use since 2021, but with
some variations in details. The key steps of this attack process are illustrated in the following
figure.

2/8



Figure 2 Attack process used by APT34 in this attack
During this attack, malicious macrocode hidden in the decoy file undertakes the work of
deployment environment. The macrocode will extract the Trojan SystemFailureReporter.exe
stored in base64 format in the document, release it to
%LOCALAPPDATA%\SystemFailureReporter\ directory, and create a text file named
update.xml under the same directory, acting as the start switch of the Trojan program, as
shown in the figure below.

Figure 3 Malicious files released from decoy document
The malicious macro then creates a scheduled task called SystemFailureReporter that calls
up the Trojan every 5 minutes, through which it runs repeatedly.

3/8



Figure 4 Trigger information of scheduled task set by decoy document

4/8



Figure 5 Action information of scheduled tasks set by decoy document
The called Trojan program SystemFailureReporter.exe is a variant of SideTwist, the main
Trojan tool used by APT34 in recent operations. Its CnC address is 11.0.188.38:443, but it
uses HTTP for communication.

Trojan Analysis
The variant Trojan presented in this campaign is similar to the SideTwist Trojan used by
APT34 in previous campaigns, with the main difference that it is compiled using GCC.

The main function of the SideTwist Trojan is to communicate with the CnC, execute
commands or program files issued by the CnC terminal, and upload local files to the CnC.

 After the Trojan runs, it will first check whether there is a file named update.xml in the same
directory. If not, output a line of prompt text through the debugging port and exit. This is a
typical anti-sandbox operation.

5/8



Figure

6 Environment detection operation of SideTwist Trojan
The Trojan will then collect the user name, computer name and local domain name of the
victim’s host, assemble and calculate a 4-byte hash as the unique ID of the victim.

Figure 7 Host information

collection of SideTwist Trojan
The Trojan then attempts to establish communication with the CnC and obtain return
information using the generated victim ID.

The following figure shows the sample HTTP communication content of this Trojan, and
suWW in the URI path is the victim ID:

Figure 8 First communication content of SideTwist

Trojan
If the CnC path is online, the Trojan will extract and parse specific contents in the HTML
code returned by CnC into CnC instructions. These specific contents are hidden between
<script>/* and */<script> tags of the HTML code.

In this variant Trojan, the CnC instruction is stored in base64 encoding and decrypted as a
multi-byte XOR key with the string “notmersenne”.

The decrypted CnC instruction is divided into three segments, namely CnC number, CnC
instruction code and operating parameters, which are separated by the symbol “|”, as shown
below.

[CnC number] | [CnC instruction code] | [operation parameter 1] | [operation parameter 2]

6/8



The CnC number is only used as an index during CnC communication, and the Trojan can
be controlled to terminate subsequent CnC communication behaviors only when this value is
“-1”;

The CnC instruction code is used to control the Trojan to perform several corresponding
behaviors, and its instruction code number and function correspondence are shown in the
following table.

Table 1 CnC Instruction Code

CnC Function
Instruction
Code  

101 Run the shell command issued by CnC, and the command line is specified
by operation parameter 1.

102 Download the specified file on the CnC server. The file save path and
remote file name are respectively specified by operating parameters 1 and
2.

103 Upload a local file to the CnC server. The file path is specified by operation
parameter 1.

104 Execute the shell command issued by CnC, and the command line is
specified by operation parameter 1 (the same as instruction code 101)

It should be noted that the 102 instruction code of this Trojan will trigger a subsequent CnC
communication behavior. The Trojan program will initiate an HTTP GET request according to
the remote file name in the CnC instruction parameters, obtain and decrypt the files in the
remote location “/getFile/[file name]”. The decryption method is also base64 transcoding and
multi-byte XOR, as shown below.

Figure 9

Communication logic in SideTwist Trojan 102 instruction code

7/8



After all the above CnC instructions are completed, the Trojan will reply an HTTP POST
request to the CnC to report the instruction execution result. The POST request body
contains information in the following format:

{“[CnC number]”}:{“[CnC instruction execution result]”}

Unlike common Trojan programs, this Trojan does not have a cyclic or sleep mechanism and
will automatically exit after a CnC communication, waiting for the scheduled task to invoke
the Trojan again 5 minutes later.

IoC Analysis
What is special about this APT34 attack event is that the SideTwist Trojan used IP address
11.0.188.38 as the CnC.

It is found that port 443 of the IP address does not provide service at present, and the nature
of its CnC server cannot be confirmed through the content returned by the IP address;

Querying the IP address assignment revealed that 11.0.188.38 was assigned to segment
11.0.188.0/22, owned by the United States Department of Defense Network Information
Center and located in Columbus, Ohio, United States, matching the agency’s geographic
location.

Conclusion
The APT34 attack discovered this time not only shows its commonly-used attack method, but
also introduced a GCC-based variant of the SideTwist Trojan and a sensitive IP address as
the CnC address of the Trojan.

We believe that the specificity of this CnC IP suggests that the APT34 attacker probably
used this activity as a test and did not enable the real CnC address. This is an operation to
protect attack resources and a tactic that may be used by APT groups, which means that
APT groups will enable the real CnC address to launch attacks only after completing
debugging and ensuring the concealment of the attack process.

IoC
056378877c488af7894c8f6559550708

5e0b8bf38ad0d8c91310c7d6d8d7ad64

http[:]//11.0.188[.]38:443/