APT43: North Korean Group Uses Cybercrime to Fund
Espionage Operations

mandiant.com/resources/blog/apt43-north-korea-cybercrime-espionage

Breadcrumb
1. Home
2. APT43: North Korean Group Uses Cybercrime to Fund Espionage Operations

Blog

Fred Plan, Van Ta, Michael Barnhart, Jeff Johnson, Dan Perez, Joe Dobson

Mar 28, 2023

3 min read

1/4



|   Last updated: Aug 16, 2023

North Korea

Threat Intelligence

Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs)

Today we are releasing a report on APT43, a prolific threat actor

operating on behalf of the North Korean regime that we have observed engaging in
cybercrime as a way to fund their espionage operations.

Mandiant tracks tons of activity throughout the year, but we don’t always have enough
evidence to attribute it to a specific group. However, as we continue to observe more activity
over time and our knowledge of related threat clusters matures, we may graduate it to a
named threat actor.

Such is the case with APT43. This report represents the culmination of endless hours of
research and connecting the dots across numerous Mandiant groups, and highlights
collaboration with our new colleagues at Google Cloud as well. It also marks our first official
graduation since Mandiant announced APT42 in September 2022.

Dive into the report now for in-depth analysis on APT43 targeting and TTPs, examples of
their campaigns and operations, and an annex of malware and indicators. Here’s a little taste
of what you can expect to learn:

Attribution: Mandiant has tracked this group since 2018, and APT43’s collection
priorities align with the mission of the Reconnaissance General Bureau (RGB), North
Korea's main foreign intelligence service.
Activity: APT43 steals and launders enough cryptocurrency to buy operational
infrastructure in a manner aligned with North Korea’s juche state ideology of self-
reliance, therefore reducing fiscal strain on the central government.

2/4



Targeting: Espionage targeting is regionally focused on South Korea, Japan,
Europe, and the United States, especially in the following sectors: government,
business services, and manufacturing, along with education, research, and think tanks
focused on geopolitical and nuclear policy. The group shifted focus to health-related
verticals throughout the majority of 2021, likely in support of pandemic response efforts.
Tactics: The group creates numerous spoofed and fraudulent (but convincing)
personas for use in social engineering, and also masquerades as key individuals within
their target area (such as diplomacy and defense), and leveraged stolen personally
identifiable information (PII) to create accounts and register domains. APT43 has also
created cover identities for purchasing operational tooling and infrastructure.
Procedures: APT43 buys hash rental and cloud mining services to provide hash
power, which is used to mine cryptocurrency to a wallet selected by the buyer without
any blockchain-based association to the buyer’s original payments—in other words,
they use stolen crypto to mine for clean crypto.

APT43 is able to support espionage efforts with cybercrime, is willing to engage in operations
over longer periods of time, and has collaborated with other North Korean espionage
operators on multiple operations, underscoring the major role APT43 plays in the regime’s
cyber apparatus.

Download the report now to learn about APT43. Not enough? Seeking even more? Listen to
our latest podcast embedded in this post, and register today for our APT43 webinar.

 
 
 
 
 

Cyber Defense Self-Assessment
Determine your cyber defense effectiveness

Validated by ESG

Take The Assessment

3/4



Have questions? Let's talk.
Mandiant experts are ready to answer your questions.

Contact Us