Atomic Stealer rings in the new year with updated
version

malwarebytes.com/blog/threat-intelligence/2024/01/atomic-stealer-rings-in-the-new-year-with-updated-version

Jérôme Segura January 10, 2024

Last year, we documented malware distribution campaigns both via malvertising and
compromised sites delivering Atomic Stealer (AMOS) onto Mac users. This stealer has
proven to be quite popular in the criminal underground and its developers have been adding
new features to justify its hefty $3000/month rental fee.

It looks like Atomic Stealer was updated around mid to late December 2023, where its
developers introduced payload encryption in an effort to bypass detection rules. Some
samples from crack websites made their way to VirusTotal around that time frame, followed
by a malvertising campaign we observed in January 2024.

In this blog post, we will review the latest changes with Atomic Stealer and the recent
distribution with malicious ads via the Google search engine.

December update and special promotion
In December, Atomic Stealer ran a promotion via a post on their Telegram channel to offer a
special holiday discount to their customers:

1/10



Welcome. From today until December 31, 2023, the price for a subscription to Atomic
MacOs Stealer is only $2000 . Happy New Year!

While the developers did not specifically advertise this feature, it appears that around
December 17 Atomic Stealer had changed some of its code to hide certain strings that were
previously used for detection and identifying its command and control server.

Sample with strings in clear text (Dec 12), showing for example the IP address for the
malware’s C2 server:

2/10



Obfuscated sample (Dec 17), using a new encryption routine that hides strings of interest:

3/10



Those two samples above also represent the different distribution channels that Atomic
Stealer customers are using to distribute the malware. It’s possible customers using software
cracks got access to the update Atomic Stealer before those that leverage malicious ads.

In fact, during the holiday break, we noticed a decrease in malvertising activity, in particular
for the campaigns running via Google search ads. This was somewhat expected and
typically extends into early January. However, on January 8, we identified a malvertising
campaign using similar tactics seen previously by threat actors distributing FakeBat. In this
instance, there was also a payload destined for Mac users, Atomic Stealer in its updated
version.

Malvertising with FakeBat – Atomic Stealer combo
4/10



The threat actors are luring victims via a Google search ad impersonating Slack, the popular
communication tool, and redirecting them to a decoy website where the app can be
downloaded for both Windows and Mac:

The threat actors are leveraging tracking templates to filter traffic and route it through a few
redirects before loading the landing page:

On that same domain, there is an open directory showing the location of the Windows
payload which is an MSI installer (FakeBat), and the Mac one, Atomic Stealer (AMOS):

5/10



Obfuscated Atomic Stealer
The malicious DMG file contains instructions for users to open the file as well as a dialog
window asking them to enter their system password. This will allow Atomic Stealer to collect
passwords and other sensitive files that are typically access-restricted.

When comparing the previous Atomic Stealer samples we have, we can see that the
application code has changed. Previously, we could see certain strings revealing the nature
of the payload (browsers, wallets, etc.) and more importantly the command and control
server that receives stolen user data. Now, these strings are no longer visible as the code is
well obfuscated:

6/10



When we analyzed this sample in a sandbox we saw the data exfiltration taking place and
the corresponding C2 server:

7/10



Stealing victim passwords, crypto wallets and cookies
As detailed in Objective-See’s The Mac Malware of 2023, stealers were the most popular
type of malware. It’s not just passwords that are of interest to cyber criminals. Stealing
browser cookies can sometimes be even better than having the victim’s password, enabling
authentication into accounts via session tokens.

In fact, Atomic Stealer developers were working on a cookie feature they announced on
Christmas Eve:

Hi everyone, the panel has released an update with a new feature – Google Restore, it
is located instead of the old page Cookies Convertor. In brief – implemented anti-
unlogin Google.

As stealers continue to be a top threat for Mac users, it is important to download software
from trusted locations. Malicious ads and decoy sites can be very misleading though and it
only takes a single mistake (entering your password) for the malware to collect and exfiltrate
your data.

We have reported the malicious ad and infrastructure to the respective parties for mitigation.

To stay safe from this and other similar threats, a combination of web protection and antivirus
is best suited. Malwarebytes Browser Guard and Antivirus for macOS can prevent and detect
Atomic Stealer.

8/10



Indicators of Compromise
Malvertising chain

ivchlo[.]gotrackier[.]com
red[.]seecho[.]net  

Decoy site

slack[.]trialap[.]com

FakeBat payload URL

slack[.]trialap[.]com/app/Slack-x86.msix

FakeBat hash

9/10



49f12d913ad19d4608c1596cf24e7b6fff14975418f09e2c1ad37f231943fda3

FakeBat C2

ads-strong[.]online

Atomic Stealer payload URL

slack[.]trialap[.]com/app/Slack-Apps.dmg

Atomic Stealer hash

18bc97e3f68864845c719754d2d667bb03f754f6e87428e33f9c763a8e6a704a

C2

5.42.65[.]108