BlackCat plays dirty with malvertising mouse traps • The
Register

theregister.com/2023/11/16/blackcat_ransomware_luring_corporate_targets/

Connor Jones

Updated Affiliates of the ALPHV/BlackCat ransomware-as-a-service operation are turning to
malvertising campaigns to establish an initial foothold in their victims' systems.

Paid adverts for popular business software such as Slack and Cisco AnyConnect are being
used to lure corporate victims into downloading malware that in turn leads to ransomware
deployment.

Rather than downloading the legitimate software, victims are instead infected with Nitrogen
malware – an initial access payload that can be used to launch second-stage attacks, akin to
the the deployment of ransomware.

eSentire's Threat Response Unit (TRU) says it was engaged after affiliates of the
ransomware group targeted its customers on multiple occasions.

The Nitrogen malware campaign was first observed in June, but the tactic of malvertising
associated with Nitrogen is new.

"Nitrogen is initial-access malware that leverages Python libraries for stealth," says Keegan
Keplinger, senior threat intelligence researcher with TRU in its report. "This foothold provides
intruders with an initial entry into the target organization's IT environment.

1/4



"Once the hackers have that initial foothold, they can then infect the target with the malware
of their choosing. In the case with this attack campaign, the target victims are being infected
with the ALPHV/BlackCat ransomware."

Using Python libraries allows attackers to more easily blend into an organization's normal
traffic patterns since they are so ubiquitous. Added obfuscation techniques further delay
defenders from spotting malicious activity.

eSentire says it stopped the BlackCat ransomware attack before it unfolded, but the
company has a special resentment for the group owing to its previous, "despicable"
methods.

Not only is the group known for its willingness to target victims in the healthcare sector,
activity that's considered off-limits even for some criminals, in July it also tried to extort one
healthcare network by posting topless images of breast cancer patients. The same tactic was
repeated recently by the Hunters International group.

Among its other major scalps claimed this year are social media giant Reddit, Seiko Group,
and Barts Health NHS Trust – the latter another example of healthcare attacks.

The group has also shown its continued ambition to evolve and strengthen over time. It
recently broke its rule on partnering with English-speaking cybercriminals after welcoming
Octo Tempest into its affiliate program.

Octo Tempest's expertise in SIM swapping, SMS phishing, and advanced English-speaking
social engineering campaigns was enough to seduce BlackCat, supposedly with a view to
opening up its pool of potential targets.

Malvertising scourge
Malvertising has grown in popularity among cybercriminals in the past few years, with
Google often addressing the issue reactively rather than proactively.

Security researcher Will Dormann posted a lengthy thread to X earlier this year criticizing
Google's apparent lack of action in preventing malicious ads from appearing in Search
results.

It followed a widely publicized case of a cryptocurrency influencer downloading what they
thought was a copy of the OBS streaming software. The link turned out to be malware and
they then had their NFT (remember those?) wallet raided.

Among the many criticisms was the suggestion that Google didn't run links through the
VirusTotal platform, which it owns, before approving them for display.

2/4



Ransomware crooks SIM swap medical research biz exec, threaten
to leak stolen data
READ MORE
In a number of examples listed by Dormann, searches displayed links that led to known
malicious payloads detected by various security vendors.

Numerous malware campaigns used malvertising for attacks throughout the year. HP Wolf
Security's report from January found a notable increase in malvertising activity, especially
toward the end of 2022.

It found a variety of campaigns making use of search engine ads to promote their payloads,
including IcedID, BatLoader, and Rhadamanthys Stealer. Weeks later, SentinelOne alerted
the community to .NET malware loaders using the same method.

Recently, in its Digital Defense Report, Microsoft identified Magniber deployments from the
Russian cybercrime group that it tracks as Storm-0381 through its heavy use of malvertising.
®

Updated on November 17 to add:
A Google spokesperson told The Register: "We don’t allow ads on our platform that contain
malicious software. We’ve reviewed the report in question and taken action where
appropriate. We continue to see bad actors operate with more sophistication and at a greater
scale, using a variety of tactics to evade our detection.

"We invest heavily in our ads safety efforts and have a team of thousands working around
the clock to enforce our policies at scale."

More about
Cisco
Cybercrime
eSentire

×

More about

3/4



Narrower topics

Broader topics
Security

More about
1  COMMENTS

More about
Cisco
Cybercrime
eSentire

×

More about
Cisco
Cybercrime
eSentire
Ransomware
Slack

Narrower topics
Kenna Security
NCSC
REvil
Wannacry
Webex

Broader topics
Security

TIP US OFF
Send us news