Blackmailer: the story of Gpcode
securelist.com/blackmailer-the-story-of-gpcode/36089

Authors

 Denis Nazarov
 Olga Emelyanova

On June 7th, 2006, breaking news appeared on Analyst’s Diary, the Kaspersky Lab weblog:
“New Gpcode with a 660 bit key…cracked by Kaspersky Lab! And we’ve contacted the
hosting company – the virus file’s been removed from the site.”

Analysts at Kaspersky Lab had successfully cracked a 660 bit RSA encryption key. This was
the latest victory against a cyber blackmailer that had been plaguing users in Russia for over
a year and a half.

Blackmail is as easy as 1, 2, 3
Virus.Win32.Gpcode marked the beginning of a new era in cyber crime. This new approach
is reminiscent of a hostage/ ransom situation. An avalanche of emails from users in Russia,
and a significantly smaller number from users in the rest of the world, shows that blackmail
and racketeering are becoming widespread on the Internet.
Alexander Gostev, Malware Evolution: April – June 2005  

1/7



It is easy to imagine how upset a user would be when they wake up on a sunny June
morning and discover that their files are unusable: either they can’t be opened or, in the case
of .txt files, they contain garbage. And it’s not only MS Office documents – over 80 different
types of file are affected.

However, a few text files do open – files with suspiciously simple names such as readme.txt.
But the text these files contain isn’t going to make the victims happy: it makes it clear to the
victims that there’s an easy way to recover their data – simply buy a decoder program that
will unlock ‘certain files’, i.e. those which have been encrypted using the RSA encryption
algorithm.

Unfortunately, this wasn’t a scene from a movie about cyber crime, but something that’s been
happening for over a year. Moreover, until recently it was unclear how victim machines
became infected in the first place.

Thanks to some detective work by Kaspersky Lab virus analysts we do finally know how
Gpcode has been spreading – at least the wave of new variants that hit Russia in early June.

The email shown below (originally in Russian) was mass mailed using spammer
technologies, and was the first step in the infection process:

Hello !We are writing to you regarding the resume you have posted on the job.ru website. I
have a vacancy that is suitable for you. ADC Marketing LTD (UK) is opening an office in
Moscow and I am searching for appropriate candidates. I will soon be asking you to come in
for an interview at a mutually convenient time.
If you are interested in my offer, please fill out  the attached form related to compensation
issues and email the results to me.
Sincerely,
Viktor Pav lov
HR manager  

The email had an MS word .doc file called anketa.doc attached. (Anketa is the Russian for
application form). This file actually contained a malicious program called Trojan-
Dropper.MSWord.Tored.a. When the recipient opens the attachment, a malicious macro
installs another Trojan – Trojan-Downloader.Win32.Small.crb – on the victim machine. This
Trojan then downloaded Gpcode from [skip].msk.ru/services.txt and installed it to the victim
machine.

Gpcode then scans all accessible directories and encrypts files with certain extensions such
as .txt, .xls, .rar, .doc, .html, .pdf etc. It also encrypts mail client databases.

Gpcode and the Trojans used to install it then self-destruct, leaving a file called readme.txt in
every folder which contain encrypted files. This text file provides information on how to
contact the virus writer:

2/7



Some files are coded by RSA method.
To buy decoder mail: k47674@mail.ru
with subject: REPLY

Gpcode’s author regularly changed the version of the virus placed on the website. S/he also
changed the email address contained in the ‘readme.txt’ file. When a victim contacted the
author, s/he offered to provide a decoder program. But naturally, this came at a price. The
money was to be deposited in a Yandex account (Yandex is a major Russian web portal,
which provides a payment system similar to PayPal.)

The infection and blackmail process is now clear, but this was far from the case when the
first encrypted files were received in late 2004.

The first step is the hardest
In December 2004 we received the first samples of a number of files which were encrypted
by an unknown encryption program. There was no hint that in six months time, such files
would become so common that we would be receiving several dozen a day. Nor was there
any clue that in the space of a single week in June, the different encryption methods used
would exceed two dozen.
Alexander Gostev, Malwa re Evolution: April – June 2005

Kaspersky Lab virus analysts first encountered Gpcode in December 2004. Users reported
that their files had been encrypted and no one could establish which program had been used
to encrypt them. The only trace left by the virus (apart from encrypted files) was a text file
called !_Vnimanie_!.txt (‘vnimanie’ is the Russian word for ‘attention’). This file pointed to the
Russian origin of the virus; the file name and text it contained were in Russian, and some
encrypted files were of a format almost exclusively found in Russia.

The first wave of Gpcode hit mostly business users: Russian banks, advertising and real
estate agencies, and other organizations using a large number of documents. Only a few
companies outside Russia were affected.

The virus writer tried to trick users and analysts by placing a reference to PGP – “PGPcoder”
in the headers of encrypted files. Thankfully, Gpcode’s author initially used an encryption
algorithm of his/ her own, which was easy for Kaspersky Lab analysts to crack.

The second wave of Gpcode infections hit in June 2005 and again, only Russian users were
targeted. The encryption algorithm used was more complex than the one implemented in
December 2004, but still relatively simple for Kaspersky Lab analysts to crack – after all,
we’d seen over 25 variants of the first version of Gpcode. Best of all, this time we were able
to get some samples of the program which was used to encrypt data.

3/7



So far so good. But one question remained unanswered – how did the virus actually get onto
victim machines? As it turned out, this wasn’t the only puzzle our analysts would have to
solve.

A little learning can be a dangerous thing
Internet rackets are becoming more and more popular with virus writers. This is a very
dangerous trend, which is intensifying with each passing month. However crude it may
seem, this is a separate type of cyber crime.
Alexander Gostev, Malware Evolution: Octob er – December 2005

The creator of Gpcode seemed to decide that blackmail was an easy way to make a living,
and that his/ her creation needed some improvement. S/he spent almost 6 months studying
encryption, and in early 2006 decided to test his/ her newfound strength.

On 26th January 2006, we intercepted yet another variant, Gpcode.ac, which was the first to
use RSA encryption algorithms. RSA is one of the best known and most secure public
encryption algorithms. The proud blackmailer even created a website; effectively ‘RSA for
dummies’.

The use of RSA encryption was a major leap forward from the simple encryption techniques
the blackmailer had used previously. We were able to cope with this, but another Gpcode
version, released in April, clearly showed that the author was continuing to hone his/ her
encryption skills. This latest variant partially used the RSA algorithm, as had previous
versions, but this time the encryption key was 67 bits, rather than 56 bits. Not a huge jump,
but a sign of things to come.

New variants were used to launch a mass attack on Russian internet users at the beginning
of June 2006.

The final round?
Since the beginning of 2006, the authors of such programs have attempted to radically alter
the encryption methods used, in order to hinder the abilities of the antivirus industry to
decrypt encrypted data. Previously, the author had used his own encryption algorithms, but
with GpCode.ac, clearly decided to bring in the heavy guns 
Alexander Gostev “Malware Evolution January – March 200 6

In early June 3 variants of Gpcode appeared in the space of 5 days. Each variant used a
longer encryption key: the first variant, Gpcode.ae had a 260 bit RSA key, while Gpcode.af
already had 330 bit key. The longer the key, the more difficult it would be for antivirus
companies to crack the encryption algorithm.

4/7



The situation was challenging. It took us 10 hours of manpower and some serious computing
power to break the 330 bit key used by Gpcode.af. We added decryption routines to our
databases and heaved a sigh of relief.

However, our relief was premature – the next day brought Gpcode.ag – with a 660 bit key.
Currently, the longest factorized key on the RSA website is 640 bits. Even using a computer
with a 2.2 GHz processor it would take 30 years to break such a key. We released detection
and decryption routines on the day that Gpcode.ag was detected.

How did we do this? Well, that’s a trade secret. And what does the future hold? That’s not an
easy or a pleasant question.

For a fistful of roubles
In order for our law enforcement agencies to take action (e.g. open a criminal case in
accordance with section 273 of the Russian Criminal Code) at least one victim has to make
an official complaint to the police. 
Alexander Gostev, Kaspersky Lab  weblog

One should never underestimate one’s opponent – even if they lose. The Gpcode author
planned the attacks carefully, using social engineering methods to spread the virus.

Spam containing malware was sent to email addresses harvested from job.ru – one of
Russia’s main recruitment websites. People who left their contact information received email
which appeared to be from a major Western company. Naturally, they clicked on the
attachment which supposedly contained details of the financial package. Given the
circumstances, it would be hard to see how anyone could resist.

Opening the attachment didn’t appear to trigger any malicious payload. But a Trojan was
installed on the victim machine, and this Trojan then downloaded Gpcode soon after. This
meant that very few people connected the recruitment email with their files becoming
encrypted, and made it very difficult to determine the original infection vector.

It’s a real shame that so much energy was expended for criminal purposes. Moreover, the
fact that the author continued to create more variants is surprising given the financial
rewards: s/he asked 2,000 rubles (approx $70) to decrypt the files. At the beginning, in
December 2004, the asking price was 1000 rubles, though messages posted on the Internet
showed that s/he was willing to accept as little as 500 rubles (approx $20).

Obviously, the Gpcode author is interested in volume, not individual sums. S/he was clearly
counting on the fact that victims would find it easier to part with a relatively small sum of
money rather than contact an antivirus company or a law enforcement agency.

5/7



Success clearly spurred the blackmailer (or blackmailers) to repeat the crime. According to
Russian law, the police cannot open a case until a victim files an official complaint.
Unfortunately, most victims are either unaware of this or have personal reasons for
concealing their plight. A great shame, as this means that cyber criminals such as the author
of Gpcode continue to go unpunished.

Protect your data
I think that a computer which is connected to the Internet is rather like sex – it can be safe, or
it can be unsafe.
Eugene Kaspers ky “The contemporary antivirus industry and its problems”

One of the most surprising aspects of the Gpcode story is that a large percentage of the
victims who contacted Kaspersky Lab during the June attacks had Kaspersky Anti-Virus
installed. It’s surprising because Kaspersky Anti-Virus blocks the attacks 3 times. First, the
infected attachment is detected as Trojan-Dropper.MSWord.Tored.a. Next, the downloader
that loaded Gpcode was detected as Trojan-Downloader.Win32.Small.crb. Finally, Gpcode
itself was detected. Even users whose antivirus databases were not up to date should have
been protected, as detection for most Gpcode modifications has been available since
January 2006.

Obviously, the victims had either turned their antivirus solution off, or chose to ignore the
warnings it showed. Kaspersky Lab virus analysts did issue decryption and disinfection along
with antivirus database updates. We even created special tools for restoring mail databases
which were damaged when mail clients were unable to recognize the format of encrypted
files. However, some users did lose critical data.

In the course of the past few years, antivirus companies have come across other malicious
code which is used to blackmail users. Two examples are Cryzip and MayArchive, which in
2006 infected users in the USA and Great Britain. Both these programs archive files using an
unknown password, and cracking the password is as difficult as cracking Gpcode’s
encryption algorithms.

These programs demonstrate that using malicious code to blackmail users is not a purely
Russian phenomenon. They also demonstrate that it’s essential to back up your data
regularly. Why make life easy for cyber criminals?

The history of Gpcode highlights several points. Firstly, you never know where the next threat
is coming from or what it will do to your computer. Secondly, under no circumstances should
money be paid to the author of such malicious programs; users should contact an antivirus
company instead, which will be able to help. And finally, although it might be boring, and it
might slow your computer down a fraction, antivirus protection, regularly updated, is a must if
you care about your data.

6/7



Gpcode
Ransomware

Blackmailer: the story of Gpcode

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *