Black Basta-Affiliated Water Curupira’s Pikabot Spam
Campaign

trendmicro.com/en_us/research/24/a/a-look-into-pikabot-spam-wave-campaign.html

January 9, 2024

Phishing

A threat actor we track under the Intrusion set Water Curupira (known to employ the Black
Basta ransomware) has been actively using Pikabot. a loader malware with similarities to
Qakbot, in spam campaigns throughout 2023.

By: Shinji Robert Arasawa, Joshua Aquino, Charles Steven Derion, Juhn Emmanuel
Atanque, Francisrey Joshua Castillo, John Carlo Marquez, Henry Salcedo, John Rainier
Navato, Arianne Dela Cruz, Raymart Yambot, Ian Kenefick January 09, 2024 Read time:  (
words)

Pikabot is a type of loader malware that was actively used in spam campaigns by a threat
actor we track under the Intrusion set Water Curupira in the first quarter of 2023, followed by
a break at the end of June that lasted until the start of September 2023. Other researchers
have previously noted its strong similarities to Qakbot, the latter of which was taken down by
law enforcement in August 2023. An increase in the number of phishing campaigns related
to Pikabot was recorded in the last quarter of 2023, coinciding with the takedown of Qakbot
— hinting at the possibility that Pikabot might be a replacement for the latter (with DarkGate
being another temporary replacement in the wake of the takedown).

Pikabot’s operators ran phishing campaigns, targeting victims via its two components — a
loader and a core module — which enabled unauthorized remote access and allowed the
execution of arbitrary commands through an established connection with their command-
and-control (C&C) server. Pikabot is a sophisticated piece of multi-stage malware with a
loader and core module within the same file, as well as a decrypted shellcode that decrypts
another DLL file from its resources (the actual payload).

In general, Water Curupira conducts campaigns for the purpose of dropping backdoors such
as Cobalt Strike, leading to Black Basta ransomware attacks (coincidentally, Black Basta
also returned to operations in September 2023). The threat actor conducted several
DarkGate spam campaigns and a small number of IcedID campaigns in the early weeks of
the third quarter of 2023, but has since pivoted exclusively to Pikabot.

Pikabot, which gains initial access to its victim’s machine through spam emails containing an
archive or a PDF attachment, exhibits the same behavior and campaign identifiers as
Qakbot. 

1/13



Figure 1. Our observations from the infection chain based on Trend’s investigation
download

Initial access via email
The malicious actors who send these emails employ thread-hijacking, a technique where
malicious actors use existing email threads (possibly stolen from previous victims) and
create emails that look like they were meant to be part of the thread to trick recipients into
believing that they are legitimate. Using this technique increases the chances that potential
victims would select malicious links or attachments. Malicious actors send these emails
using addresses (created either through new domains or free email services) with names
that can be found in original email threads hijacked by the malicious actor. The email
contains most of the content of the original thread, including the email subject, but adds a
short message on top directing the recipient to open the email attachment.

This attachment is either a password-protected archive ZIP file containing an IMG file or a
PDF file. The malicious actor includes the password in the email message. Note that the
name of the file attachment and its password vary for each email.

2/13



Figure 2. Sample email with a malicious ZIP attachment
download

Figure 3. Sample email with a malicious PDF attachment
download

The emails containing PDF files have a shorter message telling the recipient to check or view
the email attachment.

The first stage of the attack

3/13



The attached archive contains a heavily obfuscated JavaScript (JS) with a file size
amounting to more than 100 KB. Once executed by the victim, the script will attempt to
execute a series of commands using conditional execution.

Figure 4. Files extracted to the attached archive (.zip or .img)
download

Figure 5. Deobfuscated JS command
download

The script attempts command execution using cmd.exe. If this initial attempt is unsuccessful,
the script proceeds with the following steps: It echoes a designated string to the console and
tries to ping a specified target using the same string. In case the ping operation fails, the
script employs Curl.exe to download the Pikabot payload from an external server, saving the
file in the system's temporary directory.

Subsequently, the script will retry the ping operation. If the retry is also unsuccessful, it uses
rundll32.exe to execute the downloaded Pikabot payload (now identified as a .dll file) with
"Crash" as the export parameter. The sequence of commands concludes by exiting the script
with the specified exit code, ciCf51U2FbrvK.

We were able to observe another attack chain where the malicious actors implemented a
more straightforward attempt to deliver the payload. As before, similar phishing techniques
were performed to trick victims into downloading and executing malicious attachments. In
this case, password-protected archive attachments were deployed, with the password
contained in the body of the email.

However, instead of a malicious script, an IMG file was extracted from the attachment. This
file contained two additional files — an LNK file posing as a Word document and a DLL file,
which turned out to be the Pikabot payload extracted straight from the email attachment:

4/13



Figure 6. The content of the IMG file
download

Contrary to the JS file observed earlier, this chain maintained its straightforward approach
even during the execution of the payload.

Once the victim is lured into executing the LNK file, rundll32.exe will be used to run the
Pikabot DLL payload using an export parameter, “Limit”.

The content of the PDF file is disguised to look like a file hosted on Microsoft OneDrive to
convince the recipient that the attachment is legitimate. Its primary purpose is to trick victims
into accessing the PDF file content, which is a link to download malware.

download

5/13



Figure 7. Malicious PDF file disguised to look like a OneDrive attachment; note the
misspelling of the word “Download”
download

When the user selects the download button, it will attempt to access a malicious URL, then
proceed to download a malicious JS file (possibly similar to the previously mentioned JS file).

The delivery of the Pikabot payload via PDF attachment is a more recent development,
emerging only in the fourth quarter of 2023.

We discovered an additional variant of the malicious downloader that employed obfuscation
methods involving array usage and manipulation:

Figure 8. Elements of array “_0x40ee” containing download URLs and JS methods used for
further execution
download

Nested functions employed array manipulation methods using “push” and “shift,” introducing
complexity to the code's structure and concealing its flow to hinder analysis. The presence of
multiple download URLs, the dynamic creation of random directories using the mkdir
command, and the use of Curl.exe, as observed in the preceding script, are encapsulated
within yet another array. 

The JavaScript will run multiple commands in an attempt to retrieve the malicious payload
from different external websites using Curl.exe, subsequently storing it in a random directory
created using mkdir.

6/13



Figure 9. Payload retrieval commands using curl.exe
download

The rundll32.exe file will continue to serve as the execution mechanism for the payload,
incorporating its export parameter.

Figure 10. Payload execution using rundll32.exe
download

The Pikabot payload
We analyzed the DLL file extracted from the archive shown in Figure 6 and found it to be a
sample of a 32-bit DLL file with 1515 exports. Calling its export function “Limit”, the file will
decrypt and execute a shellcode that identifies if the process is being debugged by calling
the Windows API NtQueryInformationProcess twice with the flag 0x7 (ProcessDebugPort) on
the first call and 0x1F ProcessDebugFlags on the second call. This shellcode also decrypts
another DLL file that it loads into memory and then eventually executes.

Figure 11. The shellcode calling the entry point of the decrypted DLL file
download

7/13



The decrypted DLL file will execute another anti-analysis routine by loading incorrect libraries
and other junk to detect sandboxes. This routine seems to be copied from a certain GitHub
article.

Security/Virtual Machine/Sandbox DLL files Real DLL files Fake DLL files

cmdvrt.32.dll kernel32.dll NetProjW.dll

cmdvrt.64.dll networkexplorer.dll Ghofr.dll

cuckoomon.dll NlsData0000.dll fg122.dll

pstorec.dll   

avghookx.dll   

avghooka.dll   

snxhk.dll   

api_log.dll   

dir_watch.dll   

wpespy.dll   
Table 1. The DLL files loaded to detect sandboxes

After performing the anti-analysis routine, the malware loads a set of PNG images from its
resources section which contains an encrypted chunk of the core module and then decrypts
them. Once the core payload has been decrypted, the Pikabot injector creates a suspended
process (%System%\SearchProtocolHost) and injects the core module into it. The injector
uses indirect system calls to hide its injection.

8/13



Figure 12. Loading the PNG images to build the core module
download

Resolving the necessary APIs is among the malware's initial actions. Using a hash of each
API (0xF4ACDD8, 0x03A5AF65E, and 0xB1D50DE4), Pikabot uses two functions to obtain
the addresses of the three necessary APIs, GetProcAddress, LoadLibraryA, and HeapFree.
This process is done by looking through kernel32.dll exports. The rest of the used APIs are
resolved using GetProcAddress with decrypted strings. Other pertinent strings are also
decrypted during runtime before they are used.

9/13



download

Figure 13. Harvesting the GetProcAddress and LoadLibrary API
download

The Pikabot core module checks the system’s languages and stops its execution if the
language is any of the following:

Russian (Russia)
Ukrainian (Ukraine)

It will then ensure that only one instance of itself is running by creating a hard-coded mutex,
{A77FC435-31B6-4687-902D-24153579C738}.

10/13



The next stage of the core module involves obtaining details about the victim’s system and
forwarding them to a C&C server. The collected data uses a JSON format, with every data
item  using the wsprintfW function to fill its position. The stolen data will look like the image in
Figure 13 but with the collected information before encryption:

Figure 14. Stolen information in JSON format before encryption
download

Pikabot seems to have a binary version and a campaign ID. The keys 0fwlm4g and
v2HLF5WIO are present in the JSON data, with the latter seemingly being a campaign ID.

The malware creates a named pipe and uses it to temporarily store the additional information
gathered by creating the following processes: 

 
whoami.exe /all
ipconfig.exe /all
netstat.exe -aon

Each piece of information returned will be encrypted before the execution of the process.

A list of running processes on the system will also be gathered and encrypted by calling
CreateToolHelp32Snapshot and listing processes through Process32First and
Process32Next.

11/13



Once all the information is gathered, it will be sent to one of the following IP addresses
appended with the specific URL, cervicobrachial/oIP7xH86DZ6hb?
vermixUnintermixed=beatersVerdigrisy&backoff=9zFPSr: 

 
70[.]34[.]209[.]101:13720
137[.]220[.]55[.]190:2223
139[.]180[.]216[.]25:2967
154[.]61[.]75[.]156:2078
154[.]92[.]19[.]139:2222
158[.]247[.]253[.]155:2225
172[.]233[.]156[.]100:13721

However, as of writing, these sites are inaccessible.

C&C servers and impact

As previously mentioned, Water Curupira conducts campaigns to drop backdoors such as
Cobalt Strike, which leads to Black Basta ransomware attacks.It is this potential association
with a sophisticated type of ransomware such as Black Basta that makes Pikabot campaigns
particularly dangerous.

The threat actor also conducted several DarkGate spam campaigns and a small number of
IcedID campaigns during the early weeks of the third quarter of 2023, but has since pivoted
exclusively to Pikabot.
Lastly, we have observed distinct clusters of Cobalt Strike beacons with over 70 C&C
domains leading to Black Basta, and which have been dropped via campaigns conducted by
this threat actor.

Security recommendations
To avoid falling victim to various online threats such as phishing, malware, and scams, users
should stay vigilant when it comes to emails they receive. The following are some best
practices in user email security:

Always hover over embedded links with the pointer to learn where the link leads.
Check the sender’s identity. Unfamiliar email addresses, mismatched email and sender
names, and spoofed company emails are signs that the sender has malicious intent.
If the email claims to come from a legitimate company, verify both the sender and the
email content before downloading attachments or selecting embedded links.
Keep operating systems and all pieces of software updated with the latest patches.
Regularly back up important data to an external and secure location. This ensures that
even if you fall victim to a phishing attack, you can restore your information.

12/13



A multilayered approach can help organizations guard possible entry points into their system
(endpoint, email, web, and network). Security solutions can detect malicious components
and suspicious behavior, which can help protect enterprises.  

 
Trend Vision One™ provides multilayered protection and behavior detection, which
helps block questionable behavior and tools before ransomware can do any damage. 
Trend Cloud One™ – Workload Security protects systems against both known and
unknown threats that exploit vulnerabilities. This protection is made possible through
techniques such as virtual patching and machine learning.  
Trend Micro™ Deep Discovery™ Email Inspector employs custom sandboxing and
advanced analysis techniques to effectively block malicious emails, including phishing
emails that can serve as entry points for ransomware.  
Trend Micro Apex One™ offers next-level automated threat detection and response
against advanced concerns such as fileless threats and ransomware, ensuring the
protection of endpoints.
  

Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)

 
The indicators of compromise for this blog entry can be found here.