Cert.lv: activist groups supported by Russia perform
cyber attacks on Latvian state institutions

bnn-news.com/cert-lv-activist-groups-supported-by-russia-perform-cyber-attacks-on-latvian-state-institutions-249022

September 4, 2023

Sign in

Welcome! Log into your account

Forgot your password? Get help
Cookie Policy
Password recovery

Recover your password

A password will be e-mailed to you.

HomeBaltics
BalticsLatviaSocial

BNN
September 4, 2023

1/4



Photo: Pixabay/Pexels
On Monday, the 4th of September, activist groups supported by Russia performed
wide-scale cyber attacks on Latvian state finance and healthcare institutions, as
reported by Cert.lv.

So far there have been phishing attacks performed on e-mails of users in state
administration.

Cert.lv invites users to check and make sure their e-mail authorisation system uses a
multi-factor authentication.

There are also reports about web defacement using vulnerabilities in targeted systems, as
well as possible destructive (encrypted ransomware) attacks on Latvia’s healthcare sector.

Cert.lv invites residents to report activities of this kind by calling 67085888 or writing to
cert@cert.lv.

Also read: Investigation of persons suspected of working with Russian FSB casts
shadow over Latvian VID

Tags
Cert.lv
cyber security
cyber-attacks

2/4



Previous article
Russia declares journalist Muratov a foreign agent
Next article
Latvian minister promises to find solutions to various problems with administrative territorial
reform

BNNhttp://bnn.lv

Baltic News Network uses cookies to customize content for readers and analyse information
flow. Cookies can be deleted at any time. We inform you that cookies may also be used by
third parties and our cooperation partners, for example, when you read BNN news in social
media.

Cookie settingsACCEPT
Manage consent

Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the
website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your
browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also
use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website.

3/4



These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the
option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your
browsing experience.

Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category
only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website.
These cookies do not store any personal information.

Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used
specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are
termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running
these cookies on your website.