Deconstructing a Cybersecurity Event
dragos.com/blog/deconstructing-a-cybersecurity-event/

May 10, 2023

Blog Post

By Dragos, Inc.

05.10.23

1/9



On May 8, 2023, a known cybercriminal group attempted and failed at an extortion scheme
against Dragos.  No Dragos systems were breached, including anything related to the
Dragos Platform.    

Dragos has a culture of transparency and a commitment to providing educational material
to the community. This is why it’s important to us to share what happened during a recent
failed extortion scheme against Dragos in which a cybercriminal group attempted to
compromise our information resources. We want to share this experience with the
community, describe how we prevented it from being much worse, and, hopefully, help de-
stigmatize security events.

The criminal group gained access by compromising the personal email address of a new
sales employee prior to their start date, and subsequently used their personal information to
impersonate the Dragos employee and accomplish initial steps in the employee onboarding
process. The group accessed resources a new sales employee typically uses in SharePoint
and the Dragos contract management system. In one instance, a report with IP (internet
protocol) addresses associated with a customer was accessed, and we’ve reached out to
the customer.

We investigated alerts in our corporate Security Information & Event Management (SIEM)
and blocked the compromised account. We promptly activated our incident response
retainer with Crowdstrike and engaged our third-party Monitoring, Detection & Response
(MDR) provider to manage incident response efforts. We are confident that our layered
security controls prevented the threat actor from accomplishing what we believe to be their
primary objective of launching ransomware.  They were also prevented from accomplishing
lateral movement, escalating privileges, establishing persistent access, or making any
changes to the infrastructure. 

Timeline

2/9



A known TTP of this criminal group is to deploy ransomware. After they failed to gain
control of a Dragos system and deploy ransomware, they pivoted to attempting to extort
Dragos to avoid public disclosure. Below are samples of various messages sent to Dragos
executives.

3/9



The next activity was to expand tactics to include references to family members and
contacts.

4/9



The cybercriminal continued to escalate their messages, Dragos did not engage.

5/9



The cybercriminal continued reaching out to multiple publicly known Dragos contacts to
elicit a response.

6/9



The cybercriminal’s texts demonstrated research into family details as they knew names of
family members of Dragos executives, which is a known TTP. However, they referenced
fictitious email addresses for these family members.  In addition, during this time, the
cybercriminal contacted senior Dragos employees via personal email.

Our decision was that the best response was to not engage with the criminals.

7/9



While the external incident response firm and Dragos analysts feel the event is contained,
this is an ongoing investigation. The data that was lost and likely to be made public because
we chose not to pay the extortion is regrettable. However, it is our hope that highlighting the
methods of the adversary will help others consider additional defenses against these
approaches so that they do not become a victim to similar efforts.

MITRE ATT&CK Mapping

Tactic Technique Procedure

TA0001 T1078 Leverage Valid Accounts

TA0006 T1621 Multi-Factor Authentication Request Generation

TA0007 T1526 Cloud Service Discovery

TA0009 T1530 Collect Data from Cloud Storage

TA00010 T1567 Exfiltration Over Web Service

TA0042 T1586.002 Compromise Email Accounts

TA0043 T1593 Search Open Websites/Domains

T1591.004 Gather Victim Org Information: Identify Roles

Indicators of Compromise
IP Addresses
144[.]202[.]42[.]216

162[.]33[.]179[.]126

Email Address
dragos.negotiations[@]proton.me

Lessons Learned
In response to this event, we added an additional verification step to further harden our
onboarding process and ensure that this technique cannot be repeated.

Every thwarted access attempt was due to multi-step access approval.  We are evaluating
expanding the use of this additional control based on system criticality.

Positive outcomes further reinforce our resolve to not engage or negotiate with
cybercriminals.

8/9



Verbose system activity logs enabled the rapid triage and containment of this security
event.

Recommendations
Harden Identity & Access Management infrastructure and processes
Implement separation of duties across the enterprise
Apply the principle of least privilege to all systems and services
Implement multi-factor authentication everywhere feasible
Apply explicit blocks for known bad IP addresses (like those shown above)
Scrutinize incoming emails for typical phishing triggers, including the email address,
URL, and spelling
Ensure continuous security monitoring is in place, with tested incident response
playbooks

Again, our investigation is ongoing, and we will reach out directly if we learn of additional
effects on our customers. In the meantime, if you have questions, please send them to
Dragos’s Office of the CISO at ciso-office@dragos.com.