Defend Against the Latest Active Directory Certificate
Services Threats

mandiant.com/blog/resources/defend-ad-cs-threats

Breadcrumb
1. Home
2. Defend Against the Latest Active Directory Certificate Services Threats

Blog

Matthew McWhirt, Thirumalai Natarajan, Phil Pearce, Jennifer Guzzetta

Jul 10, 2023

2 min read

1/3



|   Last updated: Aug 01, 2023

prevention

Detection

Response

Active Directory Certificate Services (AD CS) is a server role that enables organizations to
leverage public key infrastructure (PKI) as part of their on-premises services to issue and
use digital certificates for authenticating identities and endpoints in Active Directory
environments. As highlighted by SpecterOps in 2021, AD CS has become a prime target and
leverage point in the overall attack chain to achieve post-compromise objectives.. 

AD CS is often challenging for cyber defenders to manage because not only is it difficult for
security teams to detect when their AD CS has been compromised or leveraged for
persistence, but the actual remediation and hardening steps can be rather complex.  

To add to that complexity, while Microsoft has released updates to mitigate specific AD CS
abuse scenarios, the updates are not cookie-cutter, and require organizations to thoroughly
test and validate their configurations prior to February 2025. After this date, AD CS will
transition to a mode that could potentially impact domain-based services, specifically when
certificates are utilized to authenticate users or endpoints. 

To help security professionals understand the complexities of AD CS and how to mitigate its
abuse, Mandiant has published a hardening guide that focuses on the most impactful AD CS
attack techniques and abuse scenarios we are seeing on the frontlines of the latest breaches
and attacks. 

Additionally, this guide outlines actionable steps you can immediately take to identify
misconfigurations and gaps in your AD CS environment that may result in compromise or
attacker persistence, including: 

1. Detailed mitigation and hardening instructions to minimize the impact of identified
abuse techniques 

2. Best practices to enhance visibility of your infrastructure that leverages AD CS
3. Hunting scenarios and PowerShell queries used to realize potential evidence of AD CS

exploitation or misconfigured settings
4. Clarity regarding patches introduced by Microsoft for certificate-based authentication

To get started, read Mandiant’s Active Directory Certificate Services: Modern Attack Paths,
Mitigations, and Hardening Guide now. 

To learn more about how Mandiant can help improve your Active Directory security posture,
view our related resources:

2/3



1. M-Trends 2022 Active Directory Misconfigurations: Webinar Playback — Hear from
Mandiant experts about specific Active Directory (AD) configuration missteps that put
organizations at a higher risk for harmful compromise–in turn calling for increased
focus on AD hardening setup and processes.

2. Mandiant Active Directory Security Assessment: Datasheet — Learn how Mandiant can
help evaluate your existing architecture (on-premise and cloud environments) and
identify potential high-risk attack paths within your Active Directory infrastructure.

 
 
 
 
 

Cyber Defense Self-Assessment
Determine your cyber defense effectiveness

Validated by ESG

Take The Assessment

Have questions? Let's talk.
Mandiant experts are ready to answer your questions.

Contact Us