DuckTail | ThreatLabz
zscaler.com/blogs/security-research/look-ducktail

Sudeep Singh, Naveen Selvan

Zscaler Blog
Get the latest Zscaler blog updates in your inbox

Subscribe

Introduction
In our persistent quest to decode DuckTail’s maneuvers, Zscaler ThreatLabz began an
intelligence collection operation in May 2023. Through an intensive three-month period of
monitoring, we obtained critical details about DuckTail’s operational framework. This
expedition granted us unprecedented visibility into DuckTail’s end-to-end operations,
spanning the entire kill chain from reconnaissance to post-compromise.

1/23



Our team yielded valuable insights into DuckTail’s intrusion techniques, compromise tactics,
post-compromise procedures, and the underground economy. These insights, some of which
have never been publicly documented, provide a panoramic view of their targets and an
understanding of their strategic motives. 

This report dives into the operational mechanics of DuckTail, dissecting the anatomy of their
tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs), and tracing the trajectory of stolen data.

Key Takeaways
Ideal Social Engineering Target: DuckTail threat actors primarily target users working
in the digital marketing and advertising space. Unfortunately, the tech layoffs occurring
in 2022 and 2023 introduced more eager candidates into the digital market - meaning
more prime targets for DuckTail.
Raiding Business and Ad Accounts: DuckTail targets Facebook and TikTok business
accounts, and Google ad accounts. Stolen social media business accounts feed an
underground economy where these accounts are traded among other users in
Vietnamese Telegram groups.
Social Engineering as the Distribution Method: DuckTail’s primary distribution
vector continues to be social engineering through LinkedIn messaging. Threat actors
set up fake LinkedIn recruiter profiles and fake job postings impersonating popular
companies to lure unsuspecting victims looking for employment.
Expanding and Always Evolving: DuckTail continues to expand the list of cloud
services abused for hosting and distributing payloads.
Exploiting Themes of Innovative AI Online Tools: DuckTail threat actors have
successfully weaponized the recent popularity of generative AI platforms, such as
ChatGPT and Google Bard AI, to lure victims to install malicious software.
Stealthy and Strategic Maneuvers: DuckTail threat actors use private residential
proxy services to log in to compromised social media business accounts to prevent
raising any security alarms. In addition, they abuse the "Encrypted notifications"
Facebook feature to prevent the victim from performing an account recovery.

Brief Overview
DuckTail is an operation that involves multiple Vietnam-based threat actors who share the
same tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs). They also share the same motivation: gain
access to social media business accounts, specifically ones belonging to digital marketers.

DuckTail malware steals saved session cookies from browsers, with code specifically tailored
to take over Facebook business accounts.The malware is typically spread on LinkedIn,
where threat actors post fake job descriptions to “recruit” potential victims.

2/23



The “products” of the operation (i.e. hacked social media accounts) feed an underground
economy of stolen social media accounts, where numerous vendors offer accounts priced
according to their perceived usefulness for malicious activity. The image below shows a high-
level overview of how DuckTail threat actors abuse different cloud services and social media
platforms in their whole operation:

Fopigeurraet io1n: .Visual overview illustrating how DuckTail abuses social media and cloud platforms in different stages of their

Unveiling DuckTail’s TTPs
Overview of the architecture

The threat research community is already abundant with great articles that address the
technical details of DuckTail’s malware payload. 

Distribution methods and techniques

3/23



The following sections break down:

the infection vectors employed by Ducktail
what those infection campaigns look like

Fake Job Posts on LinkedIn

DuckTail primarily reaches victims by posting fake marketing-related job listings on LinkedIn.
The threat actors presume that the marketing professionals who apply likely have access to
ad accounts. The image below is an example of a fake job post on LinkedIn used by Ducktail
to lure an unsuspecting candidate.

Fthigaut rthee 2 p: oTshti sis i sp rwohmaot ttehde. threat actor sees moments after setting up a fake marketing job post on LinkedIn. It’s worth noting

In addition to creating fake job posts on LinkedIn, threat actors also set up profiles on
LinkedIn impersonating recruiters. To facilitate social engineering tactics, in some cases,
threat actors add the “Hiring” banner to their LinkedIn profile picture. This catches the
attention of users actively seeking a new job.

Once a potential victim responds to a bait post, the “recruiter” will send a message on
LinkedIn.

4/23



How it works

The threat actors will ask the interested applicant to review the job application package by:

1. Downloading an archive
2. Opening it on a Windows machine
3. Double-clicking the executable (camouflaged as another type of file) inside it

To maximize their chance of infection, some threat actors create instructional videos showing
victims how to “properly” infect their own devices. The image below shows this tactic in
action:

Figure 3: “Ashley Swarts” (a fake threat actor account) instructing a victim on how to open the fake job application package.

The nuances of language

The threat actor’s English proficiency closely matches the English language skills of an
average Vietnamese cybercriminal, not an American HR professional. 

Our team observed threat actors using Google Translate to communicate with potential
victims. The image below shows a threat actor translating messages from English to
Vietnamese in real-time as they communicate with a victim. The predominant use of the
Vietnamese language also supports our attributing DuckTail to Vietnamese threat actors.

5/23



Fcoignuvreer s4a: tAio nthsr eoant  Laicntkoer duIsni.ng Google Translate to communicate in English while handling multiple fraudulent job application

Impersonating real companies

DuckTail threat actors send job offers impersonating popular organizations and brands to
entice job seekers.  

In the image below, a threat actor leveraged a compromised LinkedIn account to message a
victim with job opportunity details. While impersonating a real company called Mondelez
International, this threat actor sent the following in their message:

a link to the company's real Wikipedia and Facebook page
an iCloud URL hosting an archive file containing the malware

6/23



Figure 5: A threat actor messaging a victim on LinkedIn and impersonating a real company.

Spear phishing emails

Our team also observed cases where threat actors sent infected archive links through email,
after making initial contact on LinkedIn. The image below shows a spear phishing email
example.

Ffilieg.ure 6: A spear phishing email sent to a victim containing the URL shortener link, which downloads the malicious archive

.NET executables as a common thread in DuckTail binaries

7/23



Most commonly, DuckTail’s malware payload is a .NET executable, but this is not always the
case. Some Ducktail payloads come in an Excel add-in or browser extension.

The .NET executables family associated with the Ducktail variants share the following
attributes:

Large file sizes, in most cases - around 70 MB or more
Includes a fake Office or PDF document icon
Contains a decoy document with details about the fake job offer/marketing
advertisement, which opens right after execution
Signed with valid code-signing certificates belonging to Vietnamese publishers
(sometimes)
Makes use of Telegram for C2 communications

The executable is usually delivered in an archive, together with image and video files. The
images below depict two common archive variations.

Type 1 Archive

Figure 7: Type 1 Archive - .exe files with fake icons (first row), together with job-related images

Type 2 Archive

8/23



F(.ipgdufr.eln k8,:  .Tdyopcex .2s cAr)r,c thoivgee t-h .elnr kw fiitlhe sjo wbi-trhe lPaotewde irmSahgeell spayloads, plus .scr executables, both obscured by double extensions

Cloud hosting and URL shortening services

Our research team noticed the following patterns when investigating DuckTail’s
infrastructure:

Malicious archives are often hosted on public cloud hosting services like iCloud,
Google Drive, Dropbox, Transfer.sh, and OneDrive. 
In some cases, threat actors use Trello, a project management platform, as a cloud
hosting service by uploading archives as attachments to Trello cards and providing
victims with a direct download link to the card.
Another widely abused platform is Rebrandly (rebrand.ly) - a URL shortener service.
Threat actors spread download links generated by Rebrandly to give the download a
more legitimate look. You can see the difference that Rebrandly makes in the image
below.

Figure 9: A redirection chain set up by the threat actor transforms a long, unfriendly Dropbox link into a short rebrand.ly link.

9/23



Newly registered domains used to host payloads

In addition to disguising links with Rebrandly, threat actors also registered many custom
domains through Rebrandly, spreading shortened links with their own fake company name
domains.

Most of these custom domains registered by the threat actor use TLDs like:

.social 

.software 

.sale 

.click 

.news 

.agency 

.company

For a complete list of newly registered domains used by DuckTail, visit the Indicators of
Compromise (IOCs) section at the bottom of this blog.

Marketing guides and AI tools

Another method of infection is the creation of web pages pretending to offer marketing
guides and marketing software, but actually serving DuckTail malware.

We observed the following legitimate marketing and AI tools spoofed:

Adplexity
ClickMinded 
ChatGPT
Google BardAI

Generative AI softwares, like ChatGPT, are prime targets because they are being
increasingly utilized by professionals working in digital marketing, content creation, and
advertising.

The image below shows a web page created by a threat actor leveraging ChatGPT for
Facebook advertising.

10/23



Figure 10: A screenshot of newguide[.]tech, a website set up by Ducktail to leverage ChatGPT.

Below, there is another example of a website set up by a threat actor impersonating
Adplexity.

11/23



 

Fleiagdusre t o1 1a:  DAu scckrteaeiln isnhfeoct toefd a adrpclheixviety. desk[.]tech, a website set up by Ducktail impersonating  Adplexity. The download button

Insights Gained
In the following sections, we share insights about the threat actors operating DuckTail and
the strategies they employ. 

Primary targets and industries

While Ducktail is mostly known for targeting Facebook users, we observed threat actors
stealing and abusing access to victim accounts on other advertising platforms, namely TikTok
Business and Google Ads. This ability to pilfer multiple platforms is due to Ducktail’s general-
purpose cookie stealing capabilities.

Communication channels and techniques

The threat actors use the following platforms to communicate and trade stolen information:

Telegram
Facebook
Zalo (a Vietnamese messaging app)

12/23



The threat actors set up Telegram bots to automatically handle data arriving from new
victims. This allows them to pinpoint the most important information, like: 

the victim’s Facebook account information
the number of detected ad accounts
business manager accounts

Fthigreuere b 1u2si:n Ae sbso mt ianntraogdeurc easc cao nuenwts .victim’s Facebook profile. An American with control over four personal ad accounts and

Infiltration strategies
Adding threat actor email addresses to compromised accounts

One of the primary methods threat actors use to takeover a victim’s compromised account is
by adding their own email address to that account.

In the image below, Facebook emailed a security notification to a victim informing them that a
threat actor has added an email address to their account.

13/23



Figure 13: This screenshot shows a security notification warning a victim about a new email address added to their account
- indicating that a Ducktail threat actor has begun a takeover of their Facebook account. 

Updating password and email for compromised accounts

DuckTail threat actors change the password and email address of a Facebook account
during takeover.

Abusing Facebook Encrypted Notifications feature

We observed an instance where, after taking over a victim’s Facebook account, the threat
actor enabled the Encrypted Notifications setting. This way every Facebook email
communication with the victim is encrypted - effectively preventing the victim from recovering
their account.

Using compromised LinkedIn accounts for communication

While investigating communication between threat actors and victims on LinkedIn, we came
across instances where threat actors contacted victims using compromised LinkedIn
accounts.

These compromised LinkedIn accounts belonged to users working in the digital marketing
space. Some of the compromised LinkedIn accounts had more than 500 connections and
1000 followers. The high amount of connections/followers helped lend authenticity to the
compromised accounts and facilitated the social engineering process for threat actors.

14/23



How are the threat actors compromising LinkedIn accounts?

We believe, with a medium-confidence level, that some of these compromised LinkedIn
accounts were purchased in underground markets by DuckTail threat actors. We
discovered an internal budgeting spreadsheet used by the DuckTail team which details
their revenue and expenditures. One of the entries in the spreadsheet corresponded to
the purchase of LinkedIn accounts.
We believe, with a high-confidence level, that threat actors are compromising the
LinkedIn accounts of users who fell victim to DuckTail’s initial attack where victims were
enticed with fraudulent job posts and fake recruiters. We reached this conclusion after
observing a conversation between members of the DuckTail group. One member
directed another member to access a victim's Gmail account (using the stolen browser
cookies), delete email entries related to LinkedIn (to clear traces), and change the
account recovery email address to an attacker-controlled email.

Compromising TikTok business accounts

The image below shows the activity log page of a victim’s compromised TikTok Business
account. The log depicts the threat actor inviting themselves to control the account and then
performing actions. After three days, the targeted business notices and revokes their access.

Fthigreuaret  a1c4to: rT.his is a TikTok business center activity log for a compromised account, showing the actions executed by the

Leveraging residential proxy services to access compromised accounts

Our team observed DuckTail threat actors using “Residential Proxy” services to circumvent
Facebook account compromise detections. 

15/23



In the image below, the attacker’s machine uses the “S5 Proxy” residential proxy service
from the vendor - 922proxy.com. Interestingly, the UI also shows the threat actor’s own
original IP address. We confirmed with an IP geolocation lookup that the threat actor’s
original IP address maps to a city in Vietnam, further strengthening our theory that DuckTail
is operated by Vietnam-based threat actors.

Fcoigmuprero 1m5i:s Tehdi sF asccerebeonoskh aoct csohuonwts o af  ath vriecatitm a.ctor connecting to a residential proxy in Konya, Turkey, before logging into the

Stolen Credentials Enter Underground Market
Social media ad accounts are constantly targeted for hacking. Threat actors, like those
behind the Ducktail operation, collect massive amounts of hacked accounts. But where do
they end up?

Hacked social media and ad accounts end up for sale in a busy Vietnamese-language
underground market. Here is what we know about this market:

Mainly Facebook accounts are sold
It includes numerous publicly accessible Telegram groups
DuckTail threat actors are active sellers

Despite the illicit nature of these groups, they are public and easily accessible. Although it
may be difficult for a novice to interpret the jargon and abbreviations that are heavily used in
the community. 

16/23



Awareness of OPSEC among those involved appears to be be lacking or non-existent.

Figure 16: In this screenshot, vendors offer access to hacked Facebook accounts on a Vietnamese Telegram group.

Threat actors target ad accounts so they can access ad budgets. High ad budgets and long-
term accessibility to accounts are attractive characteristics to threat actors.

17/23



Facebook combats threat actors like Ducktail, who hack and abuse ad accounts on their
platform, by automatically flagging suspicious accounts. Because of this, threat actors try to
prolong the life of a compromised ad account. For this reason, hacked Facebook accounts
are not interchangeable commodities. Depending on an account’s properties, it may range
from very valuable to almost useless to buyers.

Here are common properties that vendors and buyers check for in this underground market:

The type of account  (a personal ad account or a business manager account)
The daily ad budget and payment threshold of an account
The number of ad accounts a business manager account controls
A successful business verification by Facebook
If the account controls a page or profile with a verified badge
The age of the account. Older accounts are more valuable than younger.
The existence and validity of saved payment methods
The account’s successful payment history. More successful payments indicate a more
valuable account.

We observed the following Vietnamese browser extension used for displaying account
properties:

18/23



Fmigeudriae  b1u7s: iAne sscsr eaecncsohuontt  odfe tthaeil sV. ietnamese-designed browser extension used by threat actors to quickly assess social

Payments and Transactions
We observed that an account deemed “low-grade” sells for around 350,000 Vietnamese
dong (~$15 USD), while accounts considered valuable sell for around 8,000,000 Vietnamese
dong (~$340 USD).

When a transaction is complete, the seller hands over control of the hacked account by:

Adding/inviting the buyer to control the account through Facebook (business manager)
Providing the victim’s login and password to the compromised account
Providing the victim’s exported browser cookies, thus replicating their logged-in session

19/23



If the level of compromise is thorough, access to the victim’s email may be given on top of
the above to maintain access even longer, and also be able to bypass MFA security
measures.

Conclusion
In this blog, ThreatLabz provides a wealth of new insight for the research community.
Understanding the operational methods and end-to-end journey of a threat actor like
DuckTail is a form of protection. Because of our research team, we can confidently state:

DuckTail is primarily run by Vietnamese-speaking cyber criminals who use Google
Translate to communicate with potential victims over LinkedIn.
DuckTail threat actors are abusing themes of popular AI tools, like ChatGPT, to infect
devices.
DuckTail threat actors take extra measures to prevent raising security alarms by using
private residential proxy services to log in to compromised accounts.
DuckTail threat actors use strategic account takeover methods which they routinely use
in their post-compromise procedures to prevent any form of account recovery by
victims
Hacked and/or compromised social media business ad accounts enter a primarily
Vietnamese-based underground market where they are sold based on their perceived
value.
You can take steps to minimize the impact of a hacker by managing your saved
payment methods in business ad accounts and making use of safeguards like daily
spending limits, payment thresholds, etc.

In addition to staying on top of these threats, Zscaler's ThreatLabz team continuously
monitors for new threats and shares its findings with the wider community.

MITRE ATT&CK TTP Mapping

ID TACTIC TECHNIQUE
T1204.001 User Execution: Malicious Link User executes the shortcut .lnk file

T1204.002 User Execution: Malicious File User executes the attached
compressed/executable file

T1027.001 Obfuscated Files or Information: Binary inflated in order to avoid
Binary Padding sandboxing 

T1036.005 Masquerading: Match Legitimate Drops malicious binaries into
Name or Location legitimate paths

20/23



ID TACTIC TECHNIQUE

T1057 Process Discovery Checks for well known security
software analysis tools 

T1567.002 Exfiltration Over Web Service: Telegram API used to exfiltrate user
Exfiltration to Cloud Storage data

T1070.006 Indicator Removal: Timestomp PE’s Timestamp header value are
tampered

Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
Fake sites set up by DuckTail threat actor

marketingagency[.]social
a1outreach[.]software
mangogroup[.]sale
la-roche-posay[.]click
li-ning[.]agency
li-ning[.]news
hrm[.]social
hrms[.]social
mccann[.]fyi
avalonorganics[.]work
li-ningagency[.]news
li-ningjod[.]news
ogilvy[.]social
narscosmetics[.]social
yodo1game[.]software
louisvuitton-social[.]news
luoisviitton[.]news
eucerin[.]work
guessinc[.]work
samsungagency[.]link
brandresource[.]social
recruiterofbrand[.]social
brandrecruitment[.]social
hrmmarketing[.]link
marketingmanager[.]social
recruitmentagency[.]social
marketing-project[.]social
nike-agency[.]link
recuiter[.]company

21/23



louisvuitton-agency[.]link
louisvuitton-agencyjod[.]live
mccann[.]expert
ogilvysocial[.]company
louisvuitton-hr[.]news
louisvuitton-jod[.]chat
hyundaimotorjob[.]social
hyundaimotor[.]social
hyundaimotorgroup[.]social
adplexity[.]site
adplexitydesk[.]tech
fbadsguide[.]tech
affiliateguide[.]tech
newguide[.]tech
businessmanagerads[.]tech
businessmanager-update[.]info
marketing-tool[.]info
connectads[.]agency
disruptiveadvertising[.]agency
impressionagency[.]co
themars[.]social
ommmarketing[.]agency
growmemarketing[.]agency
ommmarketing[.]digital
impressiondigitals[.]agency
impressiondigital[.]info
passions[.]agency
brandstyle[.]agency
brandstyle[.]digital

Appendix
Attacker-controlled Trello account

22/23



Figure 19: An attacker-controlled Trello account used to host the malicious files. Screenshot shows the activity log.

Thank you for reading

Was this post useful?

Get the latest Zscaler blog updates in your inbox

By submitting the form, you are agreeing to our privacy policy.