Earth Estries Targets Government, Tech for
Cyberespionage

trendmicro.com/en_us/research/23/h/earth-estries-targets-government-tech-for-cyberespionage.html

August 30, 2023

APT & Targeted Attacks

We break down a new cyberespionage campaign deployed by a cybercriminal group we
named Earth Estries. Analyzing the tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) employed,
we observed overlaps with the advanced persistent threat (APT) group FamousSparrow as
Earth Estries targets governments and organizations in the technology sector.

By: Ted Lee, Lenart Bermejo, Hara Hiroaki, Leon M Chang, Gilbert Sison August 30, 2023
Read time:  ( words)

Earlier this year, we discovered a new cyberespionage campaign by a hacker group we
named Earth Estries. Based on our observations, Earth Estries has been active since at
least 2020. We also found some overlaps between the tactics, techniques, and procedures
(TTPs) used by Earth Estries and those used by another advanced persistent threat (APT)
group, FamousSparrow.

From a general overview of the tools and techniques used in this ongoing campaign, we
believe the threat actors behind Earth Estries are working with high-level resources and
functioning with sophisticated skills and experience in cyberespionage and illicit activities.
The threat actors also use multiple backdoors and hacking tools to enhance intrusion
vectors. To leave as little footprint as possible, they use PowerShell downgrade attacks to
avoid detection from Windows Antimalware Scan Interface’s (AMSI) logging mechanism. In
addition, the actors abuse public services such as Github, Gmail, AnonFiles, and File.io to
exchange or transfer commands and stolen data.

This active campaign targets organizations in the government and technology industries
based in the Philippines, Taiwan, Malaysia, South Africa, Germany, and the US. We detail
our findings and technical analysis in this entry to guide security teams and organizations in
reviewing the status of their respective digital assets and for them to enhance their existing
security configurations.

Infection vector

1/18



2/18



Figure 1. The attack routine of Earth Estries

We found Earth Estries compromising existing accounts with administrative privileges after it
successfully infected one of the organization’s internal servers. By installing Cobalt Strike on
the system, the actors behind Earth Estries were able to deploy more pieces of malware and
perform lateral movement. Through the Server Message Block (SMB) and WMI command
line (WMIC), the threat actors propagated backdoors and hacking tools in other machines in
the victim’s environment. At the end of each round of operations in a series of deployments,
they archived the collected data from a specified folder. According to our samples and
analysis, the threat actors targeted PDF and DDF files, which the actors uploaded to online
storage repositories AnonFiles or File.io using curl.exe.

We also noted that the threat actors regularly cleaned their existing backdoor after finishing
each round of operation and redeployed a new piece of malware when they started another
round. We believe that they do this to reduce the risk of exposure and detection.

Backdoor and hacking tools

We observed the threat actors using various tools in this campaign, including information
stealers, browser data stealers, and port scanners, among others. In this section, we focus
on newly discovered and noteworthy toolsets and discuss their technical details.

Zingdoor

Zingdoor is a new HTTP backdoor written in Go. While we first encountered Zingdoor in April
2023, some logs indicate that the earliest developments of this backdoor took place in June
2022. However, it had rarely been seen in the wild and had only been observed being used
in a limited number of victims, likely as a newly designed backdoor with cross-platform
capabilities. Zingdoor is packed using UPX and heavily obfuscated by a custom obfuscator
engine.

We noted that Zingdoor adopts anti-UPX unpacking techniques. Generally, the magic
number of UPX is “UPX!”, but in this case it was modified to “MSE!”, and the UPX application
cannot unpack this modified file. This technique is easy and in internet of things (IoT) types
of malware, but it is considered rare in APT activities.

Zingdoor was disguised as mpclient.dll and designed to run via DLL sideloading by abusing
Windows defender binary MsSecEs.exe. Upon running the executable, Zingdoor registers
the current parent process as a Windows service with the name "MsSecEsSvc" for
persistence and starts it. As a service process, Zingdoor connects and waits for a command
from the command-and-control (C&C) server. Based on the functions defined in the
backdoor, it supports the following capabilities:

Get system information

3/18



Get Windows service information
Disk management (file upload/download, file enumeration)
Run arbitrary commands

Figure 2. Modified UPX header for anti-UPX unpacking technique

TrillClient

TrillClient toolset is an information stealer designed to steal browser data, and is packed in a
single cabinet file (.cab) and extracted through the utility application expand.exe. The CAB
file contains a TrillClient installer and a stealer. Based on different arguments, the installer
performs the following behaviors:

4/18



Table 1. TrillClient arguments and behaviors

Argument Description

-install Installs itself as Windows service Net Connection

-start Creates a victim list based on the input victim ID (File name:
{victim id} 7C809B4866086EF7FB1AB722F94DF5AF493B80DB)

Launches the TrillClient stealer through starting services

-remove Cleans up the installation (Deletes the service)

As TrillClient is a custom browser data stealer written in Go, it is heavily obfuscated by a
custom obfuscator for anti-analysis. Once launched, it looks for the victim list,
7C809B4866086EF7FB1AB722F94DF5AF493B80DB created by the installer. Afterward, it
connects to a GitHub repository to retrieve the command for the next set of actions. The
repository address is hard-coded in the malware as follows:
hxxps://raw[.]githubusercontent[.]com/trillgb/codebox/main/config.json.

Figure 3. Sample content of “config.json”

Value.name is the victim ID, while value.value is a command. After receiving this
configuration, TrillClient looks for its own victim ID in the value.name list, and performs
malicious activities based on the command defined by value.value. TrillClient supports the
following commands:

5/18



Table 2. TrillCient commands and functions

Command Function

1 Does nothing

2 Starts to collect browser credentials

3 Schedules a task to collect browser credentials by 12 p.m. today or tomorrow

4 Starts to collect browser credentials after some time (no definite duration,
estimated to be a random number of seconds)

TrillClient steals the sensitive data found in the following directories:

%LOCALAPPDATA%\Google\Chrome\User Data\Local State
%LOCALAPPDATA%\Google\Chrome\User Data\<PROFILE>\Login Data
%LOCALAPPDATA%\Google\Chrome\User Data\<PROFILE>\Network\Cookies
%APPDATA%\Microsoft\Protect\*

The collected data will be temporarily copied to
<%TEMP%\browser_temp_data<RANDOM>>, archived usingthe  .tar command, and
encrypted with an XOR algorithm. Then the collected data will be sent to the threat actor’s
email account trillgamby@gmail[.]com over SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol). Another
noteworthy capability of TrillClient is its ability to update its version. As the value of “version”
defined in the downloaded config is newer than the current version number, it will download
the newer one from the GitHub repository and update itself.

HemiGate

HemiGate is a backdoor used by Earth Estries. Like most of the tools used by this threat
actor, this backdoor is also executed via DLL sideloading using one of the loaders that
support interchangeable payloads. K7AVMScn.exe from K7 Computing is the sideloading
host utilized by this backdoor, while the loader poses as K7AVWScn.dll. The main backdoor
is an encrypted file named taskhask.doc, and another encrypted file named taskhask.dat
serves as the configuration file.

6/18



Figure 4. HemiGate sideloading sequence

HemiGate communicates to its C&C server over port 443 and performs a connection via
proxy if required by the environment. The C&C server is retrieved from the configuration file,
which mainly contains C&C server and port combinations. The config file is decrypted using
RC4 encryption with the key 4376dsygdYTFde3. This RC4 key is also used in other
encryption/decryption functions performed by the backdoor in most of its routines.
Communication with the server is performed using POST method, using the following
predefined header:

Figure 5. HemiGate communication header

HemiGate executes in three instances:

First instance. This instance is launched without any parameter. Its main purpose is to
install startup mechanisms and execute the second instance. This instance will
terminate once its purpose is finished.

Startup 1. An entry in the autosta rt registry named “Windrive” is created.
Startup 2. A service called “Windrive” with the full service name “Windows Drive
Security” is created as another startup mechanism.

7/18



Second instance: Executed with the /a argument, this instance is responsible for
reading the config file and communicating with the C&C server. It also serves as the
launcher and will communicate with the third instance via named pipes. In addition, the
second instance performs the following functions:

Updates the configuration
Receives the data captured by the keylogger function via pipe and logs it into a
file
Serves as watchdog for the third instance
Directly executes backdoor commands if the parameter is satisfied or if the pipe
communication fails
Passes backdoor command execution to the third instance if the parameter from
the C&C is true and the pipe communication is successful
Executes a full uninstall if the command is received from the C&C

Third instance. This instance is launched with the /u <PID of instance 2> argument.
The following are its two main functions:

Executes the keylogger routine and passes captured data to the second instance
via pipe communication

Keylogger communication is done via \\[.]\pipe\Key[500]
Opens a pipe to receive and executes commands passed by the second instance

Commands are received via \\[.]\pipe\<username>\[<session number>]

Figure 6. HemiGate process tree

The keylogger feature utilizes a non-interactive static control window by creating a window
with a predefined “static” class. A timer function is then used alongside a keyboard hook to
log the keystrokes on an active window continuously, so long as the window remains active.
The keystroke is logged using the following structure:

8/18



User: Active user at the time of logging
Title: Active window title
Time: Time of the keystroke log (format: dd/mm hh:mm:ss)
Key: Logged keystrokes

Aside from the keylogger, the following features are also available:

Directory monitoring: Sets a directory notification handle to receive notifications for
added files, deleted files, changes in files, and file name changes (records old and new
names) in the target directory. The changes recorded are stored in the file named “fm.”
File content read/write: Allows to write contents to a target file or to read the contents of
the target file.
File operations: Performs operations like enumerate drives, move, copy, rename, or
delete files, create directories, or open files using their default applications.
Shell: Launches an interactive command shell.
CMD: Executes a command via cmd (one-time execution).
Screenshot: Takes a screenshot of the active desktop window.
Process monitor: Enumerates currently running processes and allows the termination
of a target process.

Heavy use of DLL sideloading

We observed that Earth Estries relies heavily on DLL sideloading to load various tools within
its arsenal. Aside from the backdoors previously mentioned, this intrusion set also utilizes
commonly used remote control tools like Cobalt Strike, PlugX, or Meterpreter stagers
interchangeably in various attack stages. These tools come as encrypted payloads loaded by
custom loader DLLs.

A notable feature of the loaders used is that the decryption key is in the encrypted payload.
We observed that this intrusion set utilizes the same loader file while loading a different
payload in the same target environment.

During our investigation, we learned several sideloading combinations used by Earth Estries
and enumerate them in the following table:

Table 3. Legitimate executables and sideloaded DLLs abused by Earth Estries

Affected vendor Legitimate executables Sideloaded DLL

Canon Inc. ijplmui.exe IJPLMCOM.dll

Brother Industries Ltd brdifxapi.exe brlogapi.dll /
(Signer: Dell Inc.) brlogapi64.dll

IObit Malware Fighter imfsbCrypto.exe imfsbDll.dll

9/18



K7 Computing Pvt Ltd K7AVMScn.exe K7AVWScn.dll

K7 Computing Pvt Ltd K7TSVlog.exe K7UI.dll

K7 Computing Pvt Ltd K7SysMon.EXE K7SysMn1.dll  

Microsoft Corporation iisexpresstray.exe mscoree.dll

Netgate Technologies s.r.o. seanalyzertool.exe msimg32.dll

Oracle Corporation jps.exe jli.dll

iTop Inc. (Signer: Orange graphics-check.exe (renamed as dxgi.dll
View Ltd) sfc.exe by attacker)

Xanasoft.com SandboxieBITS.exe SbieDll.dll

By and large, the DLL sideloading attacks we've observed are against older versions of
legitimate files, some even a decade old, in a bid to convert them into LOLBins. Attackers
are using this opportunistic tactic in the hopes of them being ignored by security products.
This situation makes it even more important to implement version controls and application
baselines to detect anomalies and prevent attackers from gaining footholds in the enterprise
environment.

C&C server infrastructure

We observed that some of the Cobalt Strike implants Earth Estries used utilized Fastly CDN
service to hide the actual IP address. We’ve also previously observed the use of Fastly CDN
in other campaigns by some APT41-related groups such as Earth Longzhi and GroupCC.

Looking into other Earth Estries’ C&C activities observed from their victims’ environments,
we discovered some notable pieces of data in the registrant information as follows:

Table 4. Information on C&C activities referenced with WHOIS protocol

Domain Registrant information

nx2.microware-help[.]com Registrar: Xin Net Technology Company
east.smartpisang[.]com Registrar: Bizcn, Inc.

cdn728a66b0.smartlinkcorp[.]net Organization: De Wang Mao Yi You Xian Gong Si
(De Wang 貿易有限公司)
City: Qinyuanshi (清遠市)

cdn-6dd0035.oxcdntech[.]com Organizaton: De Wang Mao Yi You Xian Gong Si (De
Wang 貿易有限公司)

10/18



vultr-dns[.]com Email: 3280132818@qq.com 

The domains observed in Table 4 were observed from real incidents. According to public
repositories, those C&C domains share the same registrant information. We infer that the
domains have preferences when it comes to registrant information. In addition, these
domains share similar C&C address formats, some of which we observed while tracking their
operations. While our investigation is ongoing to determine whether these domains and
registrant data are related to the threat actors, we do know that these pieces of information
can be used to pivot other related C&C domains, likely used by the same group.

Based on the registrant information, we found more records of the old domain registered by
the threat actors. 

Table 5. History of registered domains following the keyword “De Wang Mao Yi You Xian
Gong Si”

Domain keyword search: "De Wang Mao Yi
You Xian Gong Si"

Registered/First Expires/ Last
Domain seen seen

rtsafetech.]com Oct 8, 2022 Oct 8, 2023

keyplancorp[.]com Dec 22, 2021 Dec 16, 2023 

trhammer[.]com Sep 5, 2022 Jul 12, 2023
(Last seen)

rthtrade[.]com Nov 23, 2021 Nov 23, 2023

smartlinkcorp[.]net May 2, 2022 (First Jul 12, 2023
seen) (Last seen)

oxcdntech[.]com Feb 15, 2023 Jul 12, 2023
(First seen) (Last seen)

rtwebmaster[.]com Nov 20, 2021 Jul 12, 2023
(First seen) (Last seen)

Table 6. History of registered domains following the keyword “3280132818@qq.com”

Domain keyword search: “3280132818@qq.com”

Domain Registers Expires

mncdntech[.]com Jul 4, 2023 Jul 4, 2024

11/18



substantialeconomy[.]com Jun 30, 2023 May 25, 2024

jptomorrow[.]com Jun 19, 2023 Apr 19, 2024

vultr-dns[.]com Jun 10, 2023 Jun 10, 2024

jttoday[.]net May 21, 2023 Mar 21, 2024

Checking all the domains, we observed that smartlinkcorp[.]net yielded the most information
from public repositories and the threat intelligence community. Digging into the domain, we
discovered a record of a related subdomain, “ns2.smartlinkcorp[.]net”. In addition, Cobalt
Strike was once hosted on ns2.smartlinkcor[.]net with  the watermark 2029527128. Based on
the watermark, we found more related domains and IP records. 

Figure 7. Cobalt Strike records found

From these Cobalt Strike records, we noticed two new domains, digitelela[.]com and z7-
tech[.]com, which we did not observe in our initial investigations. We then found another
domain set possibly used by the threat actors based on the registrant information. 

Table 7. Registered domains’ histories following the keyword “3087384364@qq[.]com”

Domain keyword search:
“3087384364@qq[.]com”

Domain Registers Expires

z7-tech[.]com Apr 8, 2023 07:40:13 May 7, 2024 06:12:13
a.m. a.m.

hammercdntech[.]com Apr 2, 2023 09:06:05 Feb 1, 2024 01:10:53
p.m. a.m.

12/18



linkaircdn[.]com Mar 20, 2023 Apr 6, 2024 07:56:21
11:00:31 p.m. a.m.

rtsoftcorp[.]com Mar 12, 2023 Mar 13, 2024
11:30:17 p.m. 06:31:22 p.m.

publicdnsau[.]com Feb 2, 2023 10:40:27 Mar 7, 2024 06:11:58
p.m. p.m.

uswatchcorp[.]com Jan 1, 2023 10:48:42 Feb 11, 2024
p.m. 06:40:36 p.m.

anynucleus[.]com Oct 30, 2022 Nov 15, 2023
06:11:31 a.m. 11:12:23 p.m.

digitelela[.]com Oct 7, 2022 07:27:56 Oct 2, 2023 06:00:40
p.m. p.m.

dns2021[.]net Apr 10, 2022 Feb 27, 2023
09:33:30 a.m. 07:59:16 a.m.

lyncidc[.]com N/A Aug 19, 2021
01:00:32 a.m.

Like the domain sets we found listed in Table 4, there are several common pieces of
information, such as the country registration derived under these domains and subdomains.
Specifically, the domains follow a ns{number}.{domain} format and are designed for a Cobalt
Strike beacon to send and receive commands via DNS tunneling.

cdn-xxxxx.{domain}
cdnxxxxxxxx.{domain}
xxxxxx.ns1.{domain}
xxxxxx.ns2.{domain}
xxxxxx.ns3.{domain}
xxxxxx.ns4.{domain}

Analyzing the preceding C&C domains and the resolved IP addresses, we found their C&C
servers hosted on virtual private server (VPS) services located in different countries. We
summarize the distribution of C&C servers here:

13/18



Figure 8. Heat map distribution of C&C server services used by Earth Estries

Victimology

Based on our investigation, Earth Estries focuses its attack targeting and attempts on
government-related organizations and technology companies in the Philippines, Taiwan,
Malaysia, South Africa, Germany, and the US. We also observed the network traffic to C&C
servers in Canada and the occurrence of toolset detections in India and Singapore, making
these regions potentially highly affected regions. Organizations in the identified countries
should not only reexamine their systems for possible intrusions and unauthorized traffic
exchanges but also reinforce their existing security measures.

14/18



Figure 9. Distribution of targeted and potentially affected countries

Attribution

While tracking the campaign, we noticed the threat actors using “ping” to test if a remote
server is available before accessing it. Figure 10 shows one of the tests performed by Earth
Estries, at the same time our tracking found that the threat actors tried to see if the remote
server with IP address 103.133.137[.]157 is available.

15/18



Figure 10. Sample tracking Earth Estries’ ping tests (Screenshot taken using Trend Vision
One™)

In addition, Earth Estries used some tools and TTPs that overlap with FamousSparrow. We
compared the backdoor loader used in this campaign to the loader mentioned in the previous
report. As for TTPs, Earth Estries also tends to use .CAB files to deploy their malware and
toolset to the victim’s environment, which reinforced the tracking we found and initial country
reports responsible for the attacks. 

Figure 11. The loader previously mentioned in an earlier report (left), and the loader we
observed from the latest campaign (right)

Conclusion

16/18



Earth Estries is a sophisticated hacker group that has been active since at least 2020 and
that focuses on deploying cyberespionage campaigns. It targets government and technology
organizations in various countries and is capable of implementing advanced techniques such
as the use of multiple backdoors and hacking tools to gain access to its targets.

By compromising internal servers and valid accounts, the threat actors can perform lateral
movement within the victim's network and carry out their malicious activities covertly. The
use of Zingdoor as part of the routine to ensure that the backdoor cannot be unpacked easily
drive additional challenges for analysts and security teams to make it more difficult to
analyze. They also use techniques like PowerShell downgrade attacks and novel DLL
sideloading combinations to evade detection. Moreover, the code similarities and TTPs
between Earth Estries and FamousSparrow suggests a possible connection between them.
Other pieces of evidence, such as tracked IP addresses and common technical formatting
themes observed in their operation, indicate strong ties that can be investigated and
analyzed further.

Understanding the methods used by Earth Estries can help organizations improve their
security measures and protect their digital assets. It is essential for individuals and
companies to stay vigilant and take necessary actions to enhance their cybersecurity to
safeguard against such cyberespionage campaigns. Trend Vision One™ provides security
teams and analysts to visualize all the separate components of the organization from a
single platform to monitor and track the tools, behaviors, and payloads as the routine
attempts to move and execute in the organization’s networks, systems, and infrastructure
while simultaneously detecting and blocking the threats as left of the attack or infection
routine as possible.

MITRE ATT&CK

17/18



Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)

Download the list of IOCs here.