Emerging Threat: Defending Against 8base – Uncovering
Their Arsenal and Crafting Responses

logpoint.com/en/blog/emerging-threat/defending-against-8base/

Anish Bogati August 23, 2023

Fast Facts
Top 5 most active ransomware groups for the months of June and July 2023.

Utilizes Phobos ransomware variant as their main payload.

Specifically targeting medium and small-scale industries.

Uses multiple malware families like SystemBC and SmokeLoader to achieve their
target.

Anish Bogati
Global Services and Security Research

1/6



Download report

Background
The 8base ransomware group has established itself as a prominent player in the
ransomware landscape, evident from the increasing number of victims whose data is leaked
on their dedicated leak site. Their primary focus is targeting small and medium-scale
industries, indicative of their specialized approach.

Although their activities began in March 2022, it was only after May 2023 that a substantial
increase in group activities was observed, placing them among the top 5 most active
ransomware groups since June 2023 on a monthly basis. This shift in their modus operandi
became very noticeable after a tweet on May 14 by the group’s Twitter account. Then the
group started actively disclosing victim data from the preceding year and also of recent
victims. We have continuously monitored data from ransomware.live, and the statistics are
presented and interpreted in the chart below

2/6



Although as of August 15th, there's no confirmation of the group creating or using their
ransomware variant. The group is known to be using a customized version of the Phobos
ransomware variant as their primary ransomware. According to VMware, SentinelOne, and
Acronis, their data leak sites and communication style bear certain similarities with the
RansomHouse group. Besides those, there is no precise evidence that provides the link
between those groups.

Modes of Operation
Similar to many other ransomware families, 8base primarily targets organizations in the
United States, followed by Brazil, the United Kingdom, Australia, and Canada, which are the
top 5 most targeted countries.

3/6



The group has no specific targets as they are targeting multiple sectors such as Business
Services, Finance, Manufacturing, Health Care, Hospitality Information Technology, etc. But
Industries shown in the below images are the top 5 most targeted sectors by the group.

4/6



They are known to target victims via phishing as a means of initial access. SentinelOne has
observed the group utilizing initial access brokers. According to Vmware, 8base have utilized
SystemBC, to proxy their traffic, and create an encrypted C2 channel. The use of
SmokeLoader has been observed to deploy the main ransomware payload in the victim
systems. AhnLab has also provided information regarding the use of ExploitKit for the
SmokeLoader delivery. After gaining access and elevating privilege, data exfiltration is
performed which is later leaked in their Data Leak Sites.

Even though the group is around for more than a year not much is known about them. In the
attached report, we delve deeply into the Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures (TTP)
employed by adversaries, along with the respective capabilities of the malware they utilize.
We have obtained malware samples and provided the analysis results, showcasing their
capabilities. Following a comprehensive understanding of these capabilities, we've created
and/or included existing detection rules to identify the various TTP used by the adversaries
and have provided a playbook for automatic investigation and response.

**All new detection rules are available as part of Logpoint’s latest release, as well as through
the Logpoint Help Center.

Logpoint Emerging Threats Protection Service provides the service subscribers with
customized investigation and response playbooks, tailored to their environment. Contact the
Global Services team.

5/6



Download report