Environmental hacktivists publish 2 terabytes of mining
company emails

cyberscoop.com/environmentalist-hacktivist-collective-mining-company/

August 3, 2022

Government

The group called Guacamaya posted files from public and private mining companies and
public agencies responsible for environmental oversight.

By AJ Vicens

August 3, 2022

1/4



A member of the Guatemalan Army patrols in El Estor indigenous municipality, in
northeastern Guatemala, on Oct. 26, 2021, following the declaration of state of siege after
protests against a mining company accused of causing environmental damage. (Photo by
JOHAN ORDONEZ/AFP via Getty Images)
A hacktivist collective posted more than 2 terabytes of hacked emails and files from a host of
mining companies in Central and South America on Wednesday, in a move to apparently
expose environmental damage in the region.

The group — which calls itself Guacamaya, named for a type of bird — posted the files from
five public and private mining companies and two public agencies responsible for
environmental oversight, one in Colombia and the other in Guatemala. The material was
posted to a website called Enlace Hacktivista, a site for documenting hacker history, sharing
educational resources, and that provides space “for hackers to publish their hacks, leaks,
and communiques.”

In a Spanish-language statement posted with the materials, the group decried what it
described as environmental devastation at the hands of U.S. and other international
governments and firms that plunder the region’s resources.

“All we really want, as our own mother warns us, is for this to stop,” the statement read,
according to a Google translation. “We want them to stop, to stop once and for all exploiting,
mining, polluting, that desire for dominance.”

2/4



The materials come from ENAMI, an Ecuadorian state mining company; the Agencia
Nacional de Hidrocarburos (ANH) in Colombia; New Granada Energy Corporation in
Colombia; Quiborax, a mining company in Chile; Oryx, an oil company in Venezuela;
Tejucana, a Brazilian mining company; and Guatemala’s Ministerio De Ambiente y Recursos
Naturales.

DDoSecrets, a transparency advocacy website that also hosts hacked materials in the public
interest, published a release on the files simultaneously Wednesday.

Guacamaya, in March, released 4.2 terabytes of hacked material from mining subsidiaries of
a Swiss investment group that detailed the companies’ apparent pollution in Guatemala. The
files became part of a massive reporting project involving 65 journalists around the world that
exposed not only proof of pollution, but efforts to manipulate local governments and
surveillance of journalists.

After that hack, the group posted a video detailing how they accessed the systems and stole
the files and emails. They also gave an interview talking about why they’re going after these
companies to Forbidden Stories, the organization that coordinated and published a series of
stories based on the documents.

“The role of a hacker is to take part in the different forms of resistance in any territory where
there is dignified rage and a joyful desire for radical revolution,” they said.

More Like This

1. AI is helping US spies catch stealthy Chinese hacking ops, NSA official
says
By AJ Vicens

2. Russian hackers reportedly breached telecom network months before
attack
By AJ Vicens

3. Cyber operations linked to Israel-Hamas fighting gain momentum
By AJ Vicens

Top Stories

3/4



1. White House moves to ease education requirements for federal cyber
contracting jobs
By Elias Groll

2. Sandworm probably wasn’t behind Danish critical infrastructure
cyberattack, report says
By Christian Vasquez

3. Growing pains at the Bureau of Cyberspace and Digital Policy, report
finds
By Christian Vasquez