Evolution of KILLNET from Hacktivism to Private Hackers
Company and the Role of Sub-groups

cyfirma.com/

Published On : 2023-05-12

INTRODUCTION
KILLNET is a prominent pro-Russian ‘hacktivist’ group that has been operating actively
since the start of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The group began its operations in February
2022, and has since been involved in primarily conducting Distributed Denial of Service
(DDoS) attacks. Additionally, the group has established a semi-formal organizational
structure with a significant presence on the messaging app; Telegram. KILLNET’s well-
developed organizational structure demonstrates a strong command and control
mechanism, with different levels of superiority, command lines, and tasking. The group

1/19



comprises several subgroups, which are allegedly involved in attacks against multiple
NATO and anti-Russian countries. Despite uncertainties surrounding their technical skills
and sophistication, they are still considered a threat, due to the continuous addition of new
sub-groups, specialists, and most importantly, recent changes in the shift in motivation, from
hacktivism towards building a financially motivated hacker company.

Executive Summary
Recently KILLNET creator; ‘KillMilk’, announced that they were building a global team of
operators from the darknet and special services members, with financially motivated
destructive capabilities. Their operation went full circle from offering services to hackers and
competing businessmen, to taking orders from private and state persons, along with
defending the interests of the Russian Federation. This report focuses on analyzing
KILLNET, Subgroups, capabilities, and recent development in the group’s motive.

2/19



Key Points
The KILLNET operation has come full circle, evolving from a service provider for
hackers and competing businesses, to a private military hacker’s company that now
takes orders from both private individuals and state entities, along with defending the
Russian Federation’s interests.
Ransom Distributed Denial of Service (RDDoS) attacks are possibly the next move of
KILLNET and their associates, considering their capability and the recent shift in
motivation.

3/19



Initial days KILLNET and associates used tools from GitHub Repositories, along with
custom-built tools to conduct DDoS attacks. Now they have specialists, who can build
a botnet for the group.
Self-destruction attacks are not possible on KILLNET, as the owners of the largest
botnets are Russians, and they have a block at the level of settings for attacks in
Russia or the CIS.
Along with the DDoS campaign, KILLNET and its associate groups are also engaged
in social engineering campaigns for credential harvesting.
KILLNET now has access to Titan Stealer and a new botnet; ‘TESLA’, built by RADIS,
a commander of one of the KILLNET sub-groups; As a result, the group’s attack
capability is expected to be greatly improved.
KILLNET adopted a tactic of operating through multiple groups, which creates a sense
of disarray and unpredictability, and makes it harder for the targets to prepare for or
defend against attacks. KILLNET has mastered the art of division of groups to conduct
effective campaigns.

EXTERNAL THREAT LANDSCAPE MANAGEMENT (ETLM)
OVERVIEW

Impact Assessment
Even though KILLNET attacks are short-lived, there is always a question on their
destructive capabilities. Their impact can be significant, with potential consequences,
including disruption of services, financial losses, data leaks, and damage to reputation.

Victimology
KILLNET and its affiliates have a primary focus on targeting NATO and countries that are
politically and ideologically opposed to the Russian administration. Their objective is to
disrupt the overall ‘ecosystem’, by targeting critical infrastructure, such as airports, banks,
hospitals, intelligence services, transport systems, public services, and private
organizations. The group’s strength lies not in their technical capabilities or sophistication,
but rather in their ability to launch coordinated large-scale attacks on their targets. RDDoS
attacks are possibly the next move of KILLNET and associates, considering their capability,
and the recent shift in their motivation.

KILLNET
KILLNET was involved in selling the cyber tool -DDOS/Stressor in underground forums,
before turning itself into a hacktivist group. Their objective was to attack critical
infrastructure and government websites, who oppose the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The
group is primarily targeting Ukraine and NATO nations through DDoS attacks. The initial

4/19



KILLNET telegram channel was banned by the app administration in June 2022, but the
group was able to re- establish its presence with another name (killnet_reservs). The group
is supported by many pro-Russian Telegram channels, which helped them to regain the
totality of their audience to the new channel, just four days after the ban. Thereafter, they
created backup channels and aggressively helped like- minded thought leaders to create
their own groups under the KILLNET umbrella.

KILLNET adopted a tactic of operating through multiple groups. Breaking people into
groups and tying their leader to lead them is much easier to manage, when participants are
in large numbers. Secondly, it is more effective in terms of conducting information war.
Psychologically, the division of groups has a significant impact on the target, as it becomes
difficult for them to understand when and from whom to expect an attack. The use of
multiple groups creates a sense of disarray and unpredictability, making it harder for the
targets to prepare for or defend against attacks, and KILLNET mastered the art of division
of groups to conduct effective campaigns.

KILLNET operated through many groups, some of them are inactive or decommissioned or
disappeared or rebranded or merged with other groups. Presently KILLNET operates
through the following groups: ZARYA, Phoenix, Infinity Hackers By, Legion, Anonymous
Russia, Anonymous Sudan, and UserSec. We will discuss the sub-groups in the following
sections.

ZARYA
Zarya is a notorious hacking group that specializes in breaking into state and strategic
facilities. The group is best known for its successful attacks on SBU, the Security Service of
Ukraine. The founder and commander of Zarya is Hash or Heshi (https[:]//t[.]me/H45H13),
who was originally a member of the KILLNET hacktivist movement. Hash established the
Zarya hacker group, under the KILLNET umbrella to pursue his vision towards the
movement. The group’s primary objective is to steal internal documents from their targets,
including plans, projects, mail, correspondence, and employee lists.

As per Hash, compromised data is not shared with the Kremlin directly, they have reasons
to believe that Kremlin representatives are part of their official Telegram channel. Zarya
conducts attacks on critical infrastructure with two main objectives:

5/19



Toestablishcontrol,notnecessarilytoshutsomethingdownbuttohave that capability, in
case they need it.
Togainaccesstotheinformationnetworkofthetargetedenterpriseand extract information
for as long as possible.

Zarya collaborates with other hacking groups, including Beregini, XakNet, Cyber Army,
Anonymous Russia, RaHDit, Joker DPR, NoName057, and Zsecnet, along with KILLNET.
While still part of KILLNET, Zarya was the only unit that focused exclusively on hacking
targets and did not participate in DDoS campaigns or had limited exposure to such attacks.

Phoenix
Initially, Phoenix was located in Ukraine and specialized in hacking smartphones and
legalizing stolen iPhones, by unlocking them. In November 2021, Security Service of
Ukraine (SBU) announced the capture of five members of the group, led by Chapaevv
(https[:]//t[.]me/chapaev_901). After that, Chapaevv re-established Phoenix to take revenge
on SBU for the arrest of five of his people, by supporting the Russian Federation. They
anonymously participated in attacks organized by KILLNET on Western organizations in the
summer of 2022.

In February 2023, Phoenix officially became part of KILLNET.

6/19



Chapaevv claimed that they are constantly developing new DDoS attack methods, and that
even Cloudflare and Google services cannot protect their targets. As per Chapaevv,
Phoenix includes dozens of botnets, hundreds of hacker commanders, and thousands of
fighters, attacking assigned targets. The method they use is a simple and affordable HTTP
GET request. As part of this method, a file, image, script, or any other information is
requested from the site server to display in the browser. The group makes millions of such
requests per second, which paralyzes the operation of the web resource infrastructure.

Phoenix uses its own botnets in its operations. They claim that their pool of devices is
approaching the level of Mirai (one of the most famous and largest botnets in the world,
which, according to some reports, includes 900 thousand devices), which can generate 50
GBPS to 500 GBPS traffic.

7/19



Recently, we observed Phoenix establishing alliances with other like-minded groups
choosing the path of KILLNET to grow its group’s strength. They are also looking for
opportunities to monetize their capability through PHOENIX DEFENSE and other sub-
groups, by providing DDoS-as-a-service and sharing compromised data.

Anonymous Russia

8/19



The group known as Anonymous Russia operates in a decentralized manner, with anyone
being able to claim affiliation with them. While typically anti- political, Anonymous Russia
supports the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and targets those who support Ukraine. Their
campaign began in July 2022, and is associated with numerous attacks coordinated by
KILLNET, including those against Lockheed Martin, the European Parliament, US airports,
US government websites, and the #RIPGermany campaign.

Following the arrest of Arseniy Eliseev, the administrator of the Anonymous Russia
Telegram channel in Belarus, RADIS took on the responsibility of leading the group and its
operations. RADIS has immense respect towards KillMilk for his work and support during
RADIS’s difficult times. After the disastrous arrest of an earlier administrator, getting the
aggressive and trustable RADIS to lead the Anonymous Russia group suggests that most
of the KILLNET sub-groups have tremendous respect for KillMilk, with him reciprocating this
support in turn.

RADIS is also the creator of TESLA-BOT, which provides DDoS-as-a-Service, which may
be one of the reasons RADIS was brought on board to lead Anonymous Russia.

Infinity Hackers BY
Infinity Hackers BY is a new group that debuted in public space in collaboration with
KILLNET. The team was created by immigrants from the little-known hacker forum Infinity.
They claim to be from Belarus. Recently, the group claimed to have conducted a successful
cyberattack against the IRS. The group also manages the Infinity forum created by
KILLNET.

Anonymous Sudan

9/19



On January 18th, 2023, Anonymous Sudan began its operations with the objective of
launching cyber-attacks against any country opposing Sudan. The group is motivated to
defend Islam and to show the world that Sudan should not be underestimated, as there are
individuals who will protect it through their cyber capabilities. It appears that the group is
influenced and inspired by the operations of KILLNET.

From the second week after its establishment, the group started supporting KILLNET
operations. On 19th February 2023, KILLNET made its association with Anonymous Sudan
official.

10/19



The group claims that the Sudanese pirates support Russian pirates for their support of
Sudan earlier. Anonymous Sudan carried out a series of Distributed Denial of Service
(DDoS) attacks against Swedish, Dutch, Australian, France, and German organizations
purportedly in retaliation for anti-Muslim activity that had taken place in those countries.

11/19



It looks like it uses paid DDoS services to conduct its operations, along with taking
assistance from like-minded groups like KILLNET. Using paid services points out that the
group is well-financed to conduct its operation possibly from pro-Islamic groups. The group
is also engaged in hacking, data exfiltration, and data leaks, along with DDoS attacks.

12/19



GitHub Repositories used by KILLNET and Associates
During the initial days, KILLNET and associates used open-source tools to conduct their
operations, before sourcing the right talent and developing their own tools and botnets.

Observed GitHub repositories:
https[:]//github[.]com/Leeon123/C C-attack.git
https[:]//github[.]com/HyukIsBack/KARMA-DD oS
https[:]//github[.]com/firstapostle/Aura-DDoS  
https[:]//github[.]com/Bionec/mhddos_p.git  

13/19



Botnet and Stealer Association
As mentioned earlier, KILLNET and associates developed botnets and stressors, using
open-source GitHub repositories. They also collaborate with DDoS-as-a-Service providers,
and stressor developers to achieve their goals.
Some of the key players are Mirai Botnet (https [:]//t[.]me/botnet_banda), Passion Botnet
(https[:]//t[.]me/PassionBotnet), Tesla-Botnet (https[:]//t[.]me/teslaBotnet) built by RADIS,
MistNet (https[:]//t[.]me/MistNet), SkyNet Botnet (https[:]//t[.]me/xSkynet) and Godzilla-
BotNet (https[:]//t[.]me/xGodzillAxNewSxPoweRxProofs). Most of them are DDoS-as-a
Service providers. Some of them are built and managed by KILLNET associates, like Tesla-
Botnet. Passion Botnet and MistNet are directly associated with KILLNET and engaged in
DDoS campaigns.

14/19



Even though these DDoS service providers do not trigger novel or exceedingly large
attacks, their strength relies on collective and coordinated attacks to generate massive
traffic, capable of disrupting the operations of the target.

The Passion DDoS platform is one of the DDoS-as-a-service providers which is closely
associated with KILLNET. Recently, they launched an updated version of their platform with
enhanced L4 and L7 attack capabilities, which are highly effective against DDoS mitigation
providers, such as CloudFlare and Google Shield. During a demonstration, Passion DDoS

15/19



showcased its power, with attack traffic peaking at 27.2 GB per second and 3.11 million
packets. The platform also claims to have much more powerful attack capabilities through
other methods.

Hacktivists usually avoid using public services because they can be expensive, and their
capabilities may not be sufficient. However, some groups possess personal botnets that
enable them to launch customized attacks. For instance, KILLNET offers such services, and
Phoenix and Anonymous Russia are also expanding in this direction.

16/19



Recently Titan Stealer also got associated with KILLNET. These collaborations only add
more destructive knowledge and power to the KILLNET arsenal, assisting in building
destructive forces like PMC KILLNET – PRIVATE MILITARY HACKER COMPANY.

Recent Development in the KILLNET
Even after the announcement of stopping being a hacktivist and becoming a private
Russian hacker company, KILLNET associates like ANONYMOUS RUSSIA and UserSec
continued their hacktivist campaigns. Parallelly, KILLNET also announced that they were
building a global team of operators from the darknet and special-services members by
rebranding to ‘PMC KILLNET’, which aims to provide various services including destruction,
production of UAVs, and means of tracking and suppression of drones, development of
robotic systems, and software development, (the ‘destruction’ services include actions such
as misinformation, impact on network infrastructure, and reputation killing). PMC KILLNET
additionally planned to update the list of its services, as it acquires specialists and expands
partnerships in the CIS and abroad. This shift in motivation from hacktivism to becoming a
destructive cybercrime organization will be an interesting development to watch out for, to
understand emerging threats from the evolving threat landscape.

17/19



Conclusion
It is evident that KILLNET is becoming increasingly powerful and effective by forming
alliances with like-minded partners and skilled individuals. The implications of this new
development are intriguing, and it remains to be seen how this transformation will impact
NATO and anti-Russian forces. It is also uncertain whether KILLNET’s associates will
continue with hacktivism or regroup or rebrand themselves. However, it is apparent that pro-
Russian hacktivism, spearheaded by KILLNET, is growing in volume and strength with the
emergence of multiple sub-groups.

18/19



Currently, the group might not be of much interest from a cyber security standpoint but
changes in group motivation and their association with like- minded groups might make
them dangerous in the coming days.