Exclusive: Hacktivists Attack Anti-Abortion U.S. States
webz.io/dwp/exclusive-hacktivists-attack-anti-abortion-u-s-states/

Last week’s controversial ruling of the U.S. Supreme Court, which overturned Roe v. Wade,
sent shockwaves through the world and the web. It came as no surprise to us to see that the
heated debate around abortion rights moved to the dark web. But one group, took it a step
further by launching an attack against “pro-life” states in the U.S.

Using our Cyber API, we were able to detect the first cyber attack since the ruling. A new
hacktivist group, SiegedSec, targeted states that support the ban on abortions, in a show of
support to “pro-choice” groups.

A day after the ruling, on June 25, the group posted internal documents and files they stole
from the servers of the states of Kentucky and Arkansas on their Telegram channel:

1/6



The announcement the group made on the attack on their Telegram account 
They leaked between 7-8GB of documents, including PIIs of employees of these states.

2/6



A screenshot of the file host sharing platform the leak was uploaded to 
SiegedSec claimed they will continue to target servers of the states that support a ban on
abortion.

Who is SiegedSec?
The group first appeared a few months ago, and has since attacked several different
companies from various industries around the world including information technology,
insurance, and finance. 

They then leaked databases belonging to their victims, which include usernames, emails,
hashed/plaintext passwords, PII, sensitive information, and more. We have not seen any
proof that they extort their victims for the data they steal.

To show the extent of their attacks, the groups also claimed they had defaced over 100+
domains, but they were stopped by the companies who detected the activity and took action:

3/6



Where is the group active?
Hacking Forums

A user named YourAnonWolf posted several leaks on behalf of SiegedSec, linking himself
to the group. He published on breached.co, the new popular hacking forum that attempts to
replace Raidforums.

A post YourAnonWolf published on breached.co
We took a closer look at YourAnonWolf and were able to find a post he had published before
he was publicly linked to SiegedSec. A little over a year ago, he posted a leak of a domain
that belongs to an Israeli organization on pastebin:

Twitter account

4/6



The group also created a new account, on Twitter earlier this year, as the last one was
suspended:

An image of the new Siegedsec account on Twitter

Hacktivism against abortion ban
This is not the first time a hacktivist group targeted a U.S. state that moved to ban abortions.
In October 2021, Anonymous launched a series of attacks as part of their Operation Jane
campaign against a Texas law that prohibited abortions.

The famous attack was against Epik, a web hosting company used by large right-wing
clients, such as Parler, Gab, 8chan as well as the Republican Party of Texas. In total, over
480GB of data belonging to Epik was stolen and leaked.

As the new Supreme Court ruling sets a new phase in the battle over abortion rights, we may
continue to see more hacktivists taking a clear stance by launching new attacks against “pro-
life” groups and states.

Hacking GroupsTrending

5/6



Avishag Yulevich

Senior Cyber Analyst

Not subscribed to our Dark Web Pulse updates?
By submitting you agree to Webz.io's Privacy Policy and further marketing communications.