Florida water agency latest to confirm cyber incident as
feds warn of nation-state attacks

therecord.media/florida-water-agency-ransomware-cisa-warning-utilities

The Upper St. Johns River Basin Project in Florida. Image: St. Johns River Water
Management District / Facebook
Jonathan Greig
December 4th, 2 023
A regulatory agency in Florida that oversees the long-term supply of drinking water
confirmed that it responded to a cyberattack over the last week as the top cybersecurity
agencies in the U.S. warned of foreign attacks on water utilities.

A spokesperson for the St. Johns River Water Management District, which works closely with
utilities on water supply issues, confirmed that it “identified suspicious activity in its
information technology environment” and that “containment measures have been
successfully implemented.”

The agency does not have direct control over water utility technology.

On Friday, a ransomware gang said it attacked the organization, providing samples of what it
stole. The cybercriminals did not say how much total data was taken in the attack.

1/4



Most of the work by the St. Johns River Water Management District is centered around
educating the public about water conservation, setting rules for water use, conducting
research, collecting data, restoring and protecting water above and below the ground, and
preserving natural areas.

“The District is actively monitoring its IT networks to ensure there is no ongoing, malicious
persistence,” the agency spokesperson said. “Accordingly, the District is continuing its
normal business operations. Until our investigation is complete, we are unable to comment
further.”

IRGC attacks on Unitronics
The attack comes after U.S. officials raised alarms last week about several incidents
involving companies involved in water treatment and distribution.

The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) said it is responding to the
active exploitation of Unitronics programmable logic controllers (PLCs) used by many
organizations in the water sector.

CISA linked the advisory to a notice from the Water Information Sharing and Analysis Center
(WaterISAC) about an attack on a water utility in Pennsylvania reported November 26.

Another water utility serving 2 million people in North Texas said Tuesday that it is also
dealing with a cybersecurity incident that caused operational issues, but officials did not say
if it was related to issues with Unitronics PLCs.

CNN reported late last week that CISA told Senate and House staffers on Thursday that
“less than 10” water facilities in different parts of the US have faced cyberattacks in recent
days.

The hackers behind the incident in Pennsylvania have filled their social media feed with
references to the leaders of Iran and have pledged to attack any entities with products or ties
to Israel — already touting attacks on 10 water treatment plants in Israel.

By Friday, CISA worked with the FBI, National Security Agency (NSA), Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), and the Israel National Cyber Directorate (INCD) to release an
advisory warning that hackers — who go by the name CyberAv3ngers — are connected to
the Iranian government’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC).

The group is “actively targeting and compromising Israeli-made Unitronics Vision Series
programmable logic controllers (PLCs),” the advisory says.

The agencies said hackers affiliated with the IRGC have compromised default credentials in
Unitronics devices since at least November 22 and explicitly claim that their motivation is to
target anything associated with Israel, according to defacement images seen by U.S.

2/4



authorities.

The kind of Unitronics devices being attacked are often exposed to the internet due to the
remote nature of their control and monitoring functionalities, they explained.

At least 539 Unitronics PLC instances (port 20256/tcp) still publicly exposed worldwide
(2023-12-02 scan). Unitronics PLC instances have been targeted recently as part of
attacks against Water & Wastewater systems. (see @CISACyber @WaterISAC alert:
https://t.co/OywIVYxo8o) pic.twitter.com/XgYrRZbfBm

— Shadowserver (@Shadowserver) December 3, 2023

“The compromise is centered around defacing the controller’s user interface and may render
the PLC inoperative. With this type of access, deeper device and network level accesses are
available and could render additional, more profound cyber physical effects on processes
and equipment,” they said.

While the U.S. campaign began in November, the hackers have been active since at least
September, claiming on their Telegram channel both legitimate and false attacks against
Israeli PLCs in the water, energy, shipping, and distribution sectors.

Cybersecurity nonprofit Shadowserver Foundation said that through its research tool, they
found at least 539 Unitronics PLC instances still publicly exposed worldwide.

Industry
News
Cybercrime

Get more insights with the
Recorded Future

Intelligence Cloud.

Learn more.
No previous article

No new articles

Jonathan Greig

3/4



Jonathan Greig is a Breaking News Reporter at Recorded Future News. Jonathan has
worked across the globe as a journalist since 2014. Before moving back to New York City, he
worked for news outlets in South Africa, Jordan and Cambodia. He previously covered
cybersecurity at ZDNet and TechRepublic.