Follow-On Extortion Campaign Targeting Victims of Akira
and Royal Ransomware

arcticwolf.com/resources/blog/follow-on-extortion-campaign-targeting-victims-of-akira-and-royal-ransomware/

by Stefan Hostetler, Steven Campbell January 4, 2024

1/6



2/6



Key Takeaways
Arctic Wolf Labs has investigated several cases of Royal and Akira ransomware victims
being targeted in follow-on extortion attacks starting in October 2023.
It is not clear whether these follow-on extortion attempts were officially sanctioned by
the groups responsible for the original ransomware attacks, given the low payment
demands, in addition to other unique campaign elements.
Based on our analysis of common elements between these cases, Arctic Wolf Labs
assesses with moderate confidence that a common threat actor was responsible for
these follow-on extortion attempts.

Summary
Arctic Wolf Labs is aware of several instances of ransomware cases where the victim
organizations were contacted after the original compromise for additional extortion attempts.
In two cases investigated by Arctic Wolf Labs, threat actors spun a narrative of trying to help
victim organizations, offering to hack into the server infrastructure of the original ransomware
groups involved to delete exfiltrated data.

As far as Arctic Wolf Labs is aware, this is the first published instance of a threat actor posing
as a legitimate security researcher offering to delete hacked data from a separate
ransomware group. While the personalities involved in these secondary extortion attempts
were presented as separate entities, we assess with moderate confidence that the extortion
attempts were likely perpetrated by the same threat actor.

What We Know

Case 1: Royal Ransomware Compromise and Ethical Side Group Data
Deletion Extortion

3/6



In early October 2023, an entity describing themselves as Ethical Side Group (ESG)
contacted a Royal ransomware victim by email and claimed to have obtained access to
victim data originally exfiltrated by Royal. Notably, in prior negotiations in 2022, Royal
claimed to have deleted the data.

Interestingly, in their initial communications, ESG had falsely attributed the original
compromise to the TommyLeaks ransomware group instead of Royal ransomware.

ESG ultimately offered to hack into Royal ransomware’s server infrastructure and
permanently delete the targeted organization’s data for a fee.

Case 2: Akira Ransomware Compromise and xanonymoux Data Deletion
Extortion
In early November 2023, an entity describing themselves as xanonymoux contacted an Akira
ransomware encryption victim and claimed to have obtained access to a server hosting
victim data exfiltrated by Akira. Notably, when Akira was contacted a few weeks before
xanonymoux’s email, the group claimed not to have exfiltrated any data and that they had
only encrypted systems.

xanonymoux claimed to have compromised Akira’s server infrastructure. The threat actor
offered to aide in either deleting the victim’s data or providing them with access to their
server. Additionally, xanonymoux claimed that Akira was associated with Karakurt, a criminal
group known for data exfiltration and extortion.

Case Comparison and Analysis
As described in these cases, similar elements were observed between both campaigns,
despite presenting as separate entities and relating to different named ransomware groups.
Stylistic analysis of the communications between both organizations identified clear
similarities between the two cases.

Common Threat Actor Behaviors Between Follow-On Extortion Cases

Presented as a security researcher

Claimed to access server infrastructure hosting data from past compromise

Communicated via Tox

Offered to provide proof of access to exfiltrated data

Insinuated risk of future attacks if security issues are not addressed

Specified amount of data previously exfiltrated

4/6



Minimal payment demand (<= 5BTC)

10 overlapping phrases used in initial email

Use of file.io to provide evidence of access to victim data

The elements of the campaigns described here are unique in their low ransom demands,
posing as a legitimate security researcher as a pretext, and offers to delete data to avoid
potential future attacks. However, follow-on extortion as a concept is not new to attacks
associated with Conti and Karakurt. In 2021, we published research revealing Karakurt re-
extortion attempts for victims that had previously been targeted in ransomware attacks by
Conti. Additionally, our past research has also identified connections between Conti and
Akira. Royal emerged on the ransomware scene in 2022, and connections have been noted
by other researchers, such as Will Bushido, between Royal and Conti.

Conclusion
It is challenging to make sense of the tangled web of connections woven by ransomware
groups, given that ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) affiliates tend to operate multiple
encryption payloads over time, sometimes even deploying several at once. The best we can
do as researchers is to piece together parts of the bigger picture by looking for common
denominators between attacks.

Based on the common elements identified between the cases documented here, we
conclude with moderate confidence that a common threat actor has attempted to extort
organizations who were previously victims of Royal and Akira ransomware attacks with
follow-on efforts. However, it is still unclear whether the follow-on extortion cases were
sanctioned by the initial ransomware groups, or whether the threat actor acted alone to
garner additional funds from the victim organizations.

This research highlights the risks of relying on criminal extortion enterprises to delete
exfiltrated data, even after payment.

If your organization has a presence in the U.S., and you’ve been affected by any of these
types of attacks, please contact your nearest FBI field office.

References
https://arcticwolf.com/resources/blog/conti-and-akira-chained-together/
https://blog.bushidotoken.net/2022/11/the-continuity-of-conti.html
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/blog/2022/05/09/ransomware-as-a-service-
understanding-the-cybercrime-gig-economy-and-how-to-protect-yourself/

By Stefan Hostetler, Steven Campbell

5/6



Stefan Hostetler | Senior Threat Intelligence Researcher
Stefan is a Senior Threat Intelligence Researcher at Arctic Wolf. With over a decade of
industry experience under his belt, he focuses on extracting actionable insight from novel
threats to help organizations protect themselves effectively.

Steven Campbell | Senior Threat Intelligence Researcher
Steven Campbell is a Senior Threat Intelligence Researcher at Arctic Wolf Labs and has
more than eight years of experience in intelligence analysis and security research. He has a
strong background in infrastructure analysis and adversary tradecraft.

About Arctic Wolf Labs
Arctic Wolf Labs is a group of elite security researchers, data scientists, and security
development engineers who explore security topics to deliver cutting-edge threat research
on new and emerging adversaries, develop and refine advanced threat detection models
with artificial intelligence, including machine learning, and drive continuous improvement in
the speed, scale, and detection efficacy of Arctic Wolf’s solution offerings. With their deep
domain knowledge, Arctic Wolf Labs brings world-class security innovations to not only Arctic
Wolf’s customer base, but the security community at large.

Learn what’s new, what’s changed, and what’s ahead for the cybersecurity threat landscape
with the Arctic Wolf Labs 2024 Predictions Report.