Fort Worth officials say leaked data came from Public
Information Act request

therecord.media/fort-worth-officials-say-leaked-data-was-public

Jonathan Greig
July 4th, 2023  
Officials in the City of Fort Worth, Texas denied being hacked for a second time after the
same cybercrime group posted another batch of information allegedly stolen from
government networks.

On Saturday, the SiegedSec hacking group said its “final” attack involved 40GB of stolen
data from Fort Worth’s Department of Transportation & Public Works. The group shared
screenshots of what appeared to be a file transfer service used by the city, which has nearly
1 million residents.

The group leaked the data alongside information stolen from several companies. In its
previous attack on the City of Fort Worth and other local governments across the U.S., the
hackers claimed that their motive was to punish U.S. states that are banning gender-
affirming care.

Several experts have questioned that stated motive, and in subsequent attacks the group
targeted states that had not banned the practice.

1/4



“This will be the conclusion of SiegedSec's attacks on the U.S,” the group said on Saturday.
“Our intention throughout this operation was to make a statement and encourage others to
do the same. We have proudly succeeded in our goal. Until next time.”

Fort Worth’s city spokeswoman initially said their IT department was investigating the issue
but Fernando Costa, assistant city manager of Fort Worth, later told Recorded Future News
that the city’s IT department has determined that the published data “consists of public
information posing no risk of identity theft or financial fraud.”

“IT staff validated the source of the data is previously released data in response to a Public
Information Act request. The underlying server, database and storage, again, was not
compromised,” the city’s IT department said. “All the data posted by the attacking group is
public information and not sensitive information that could result in identity theft or financial
fraud.”

Last week, the city confirmed that a website with government information was breached and
accessed by the same group of hackers.

But they downplayed the severity of that incident in comments to the media, explaining that
the data came from a website that city workers use to manage maintenance activities.

“It appears the hackers downloaded file attachments to work orders within the system and
those attachments include things like photographs, spreadsheets, invoices for work
performed, emails between staff, PDF documents and other related materials for work
orders,” the city’s Chief Technology Officer Kevin Gunn said.

None of the information was “sensitive in nature,” Gunn said, adding that overall most of it is
data that “would be released through a Public Information Act request.” Gunn said the
investigation uncovered that the group stole login information but it is unclear how they
managed to accomplish that.

No other systems were accessed and no sensitive data was accessed or released, Gunn
reiterated.

SiegedSec never asked the city for a ransom, according to Gunn. When asked by reporters
what motivated the group, he referenced their Telegram post, noting that they appeared
interested in embarrassing the city and “making a political statement.”

SiegedSec claimed it hacked the governments of Arkansas and Kentucky last year after the
state banned abortion following the Supreme Court decision to overturn Roe v. Wade. But
state officials later confirmed that the group simply downloaded publicly available record
data.

The group leaked documents or defaced the websites of government agencies in Nebraska,
South Dakota, Texas, Pennsylvania and South Carolina last week.

2/4



Government
Cybercrime

Get more insights with the
Recorded Future

Intelligence Cloud.

Learn more.
No previous article

No new articles

Jonathan Greig

3/4



Jonathan Greig is a Breaking News Reporter at Recorded Future News. Jonathan has
worked across the globe as a journalist since 2014. Before moving back to New York City, he
worked for news outlets in South Africa, Jordan and Cambodia. He previously covered
cybersecurity at ZDNet and TechRepublic.