Hacking group focused on Central America dumps 10
terabytes of military emails, files

cyberscoop.com/central-american-hacking-group-releases-emails/

September 19, 2022

Geopolitics

This is the fourth release from Guacamaya, a Central American hacking group that says it
fights environmental devastation and exploitation.

By AJ Vicens

September 19, 2022

Chilean Mapuche indigenous people and their supporters clash with riot police during a
protest against Chile's government outside the Congress building in Valparaiso, Chile, on
November 4, 2021. (Photo by DEDVI MISSENE/AFP via Getty Images)
A hacking group that has primarily focused on Central American targets released on Monday
roughly 10 terabytes of emails and other materials from military and police agencies in Chile,
Mexico, El Salvador, Colombia and Peru.

The data dump is the latest release from the group that has focused on infiltrating mining and
oil companies, police and several Latin American regulatory agencies since March 2022.

1/4



The release from the hacking group, which calls itself Guacamaya after a type of bird native
to Central and South America, follows a pattern of targeting entities the group sees as
playing a role in both the region’s environmental degradation and also the repression of
native populations. Monday’s release focused on multiple military bodies as part of that
dynamic, the group said in a statement.

“To make it clear, the military armies and the police forces of the States of Abya Yala are the
guarantee of the domination of North American imperialism, they are the guarantee of the
extractivist presence of the Global North,” the group said in a Spanish-language statement,
according to a Google translation. “They are violent repressive forces, criminals against the
peoples themselves and their internal pyramidal organization charts of power are also
reprehensible.”

Abya Yala is the name used by indigenous people of current day Central America for the
American continent.

The specific targets in this case, according to the release, are the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the
Chilean Armed Forces, the Mexican Secretariat of National Defense, the National Civil Police
of El Salvador and the Armed Forces of El Salvador, the General Command of the Military
Forces of Colombia, the Joint Command of the Armed Forces of Peru and the Army of Peru.

The Chilean materials were cross posted to DDoSecrets, a site that hosts hacked and leaked
data, publishing some outright and sharing other, more sensitive sets in the public interest,
with journalists and researchers, as in the case of the remaining material.

This is the fourth Guacamaya release since March, all posted to Enlace Hacktivista, a
website dedicated to documenting hacker history, sharing information security educational
resources and publishing materials from hackers.

Earlier releases have targeted the federal prosecutor’s office in Colombia, a group of
international mining and energy companies — as well as some of the agencies tasked with
regulating them — from across multiple regional countries, and another release from March
on a Swiss mining consortium operating in Guatemala.

The March release was to “Mining Secrets,” a massive, international reporting project
involving 65 journalists coordinated by Forbidden Stories, that exposed apparent corruption
and the surveillance of journalists and activists opposing mining activities.

Correction: This story initially inaccurately reported that the released files totaled 10
gigabytes. The correct figure is roughly 10 terabytes.

More Like This

2/4



1. AI is helping US spies catch stealthy Chinese hacking ops, NSA official
says
By AJ Vicens

2. Russian hackers reportedly breached telecom network months before
attack
By AJ Vicens

3. Cyber operations linked to Israel-Hamas fighting gain momentum
By AJ Vicens

Top Stories

1. White House moves to ease education requirements for federal cyber
contracting jobs
By Elias Groll

2. Sandworm probably wasn’t behind Danish critical infrastructure
cyberattack, report says
By Christian Vasquez

3. Growing pains at the Bureau of Cyberspace and Digital Policy, report
finds
By Christian Vasquez

More Scoops

3/4



 Photo illustration by

Jonathan Clark/Scoop News Group

The politics and power of Latin American hacktivists Guacamaya
The group has put Latin American governments, politicians and corporations on notice that it
can expose their secrets.

By AJ Vicens

 A member of the Guatemalan Army patrols in El Estor

indigenous municipality, in northeastern Guatemala, on Oct. 26, 2021, following the
declaration of state of siege after protests against a mining company accused of causing
environmental damage. (Photo by JOHAN ORDONEZ/AFP via Getty Images)

Environmental hacktivists publish 2 terabytes of mining company emails