Hacktivists take sides in Israel-Palestinian war
therecord.media/hacktivists-take-sides-israel-palestinian

Image: Philipp Katzenberger via Unsplash
Politically-motivated hackers from all over the world have leapt into the escalating conflict
between Israel and the Palestinian group Hamas.

Hacktivists are using tactics similar to what was seen at the beginning of the Ukraine-Russia
war: leaking stolen documents and launching distributed denial-of-service and defacement
attacks on government websites, media outlets, and critical infrastructure.

The recent surge in hacktivism comes on the heels of the Red Cross issuing ethical
guidelines for civilian hackers participating in armed conflicts, encouraging them to be more
"humane."

Since Hamas fighters launched their assault on Saturday, nearly 60 groups have targeted
entities connected with either Palestine or Israel, mostly with denial-of-service attacks
(DDoS) attacks.

Read More: Social media platforms foment disinformation about war in Israel

Cyberattacks on Israel have mainly come from hacktivists based in Russia, Bangladesh,
Pakistan, Morocco, and Iran, according to Will Thomas, a cyber threat intelligence
researcher who has been monitoring the activity.

1/5



The attacks include sharing credentials for Israeli websites, leaking stolen data, launching
DDoS attacks, and hijacking application programming interfaces (APIs) to send mobile push
messages, he said.

On Sunday, the pro-Palestinian hacktivist group AnonGhost exploited an API bug in the
RedAlert app, which provides Israelis with real-time missile warnings, to send a fake threat of
nuclear attack, according to the cybersecurity firm Group-IB. The Red Alert app has over one
million downloads on the Google Play store.

“Hacktivists are generally associated with conducting small-scale DDoS attacks and
defacement. However, as the ongoing conflict shows, their actions can be far more
devastating and costly,” the researchers said.

AnonGhost also claimed that it had hacked an Israeli flight booking website and the official
app used by police officers in the Israel Defense Forces. The group shared the National
Cyber Directorate head's phone number, encouraging others to spam him.

“We are very proud that we are defending Palestine. It's a duty to try to establish peace for
humanity, spreading awareness. As you can see religion doesn't make us different, or
nationality, we are united together," the hackers said on Telegram.

One of the most active Russian hacktivist groups, Killnet, also sided with Hamas.

On Sunday, the group posted a message on Telegram accusing the Israeli government of
supporting Ukraine during the war with Russia and warning of cyberattacks.

"You've betrayed Russia. We will target all Israeli government systems with our attacks!" the
group said.

Killnet then claimed that it had taken down an Israeli government website and the website of
the security agency Shin Bet. Both websites were indeed offline for a period on Sunday.

In the past, Moscow has tried to act as a mediator in the conflict and play both sides, but its
growing military alliance with Iran, an enemy of Israel and supporter of Hamas, has
complicated the situation.

Anonymous Sudan, a religiously-motivated hacker group, said it is behind an attack on the
Jerusalem Post, Israel's most-read English news website. As of Tuesday morning, the
website was still down.

2/5



The Jerusalem Post has been targeted by multiple cyberattacks this morning causing
our site to crash. 
  
We'll be back soon and will continue to be the top source of information on Operation
Swords of Iron and the murderous attacks by Hamas. pic.twitter.com/6S2GOl6Wma

— The Jerusalem Post (@Jerusalem_Post) October 8, 2023

On Tuesday, Anonymous Sudan also claimed to have teamed up with the hacking group
SiegedSec to target Israeli industrial control systems and navigational satellite systems.

Anti-Hamas hacktivist attacks
Fewer hacktivist groups have come out in support of Israel.

The Indian Cyber Force, a pro-India group known for its recent attacks on the Canadian
military website, claimed responsibility for targeting a Palestinian telecommunications
company, the National Bank's website, a government webmail service, and the official
Hamas website. As of Tuesday morning, most of these websites were inaccessible.

In response, pro-Palestinian hackers launched cyberattacks on Indian government websites
on Tuesday, accusing India of supporting Israel. Indian cyber officials said they had
successfully countered these attacks.

Other pro-Israel hacking groups include the India-linked Team UCC Ops, the relatively new
and previously unknown hacktivist gangs Garuna Ops and SilenOne.

9 OCT Israel-Palestine #cybertracker 
  
Current visible cyber landscape. A large group targeting #Israel - almost all these
groups have been doing it for years. Current baseline , but will evolve. 
  
For awareness - report to follow#cybersecurity #infosec #IsraelPalestineWar
pic.twitter.com/AJYY3bSp0Y

— CyberKnow (@Cyberknow20) October 8, 2023

Some hacktivists, meanwhile, have chosen to attack both sides.
“As you might know, we don't like Israel, but we also don't like war! So, as we have attacked
Israel in the past, we now attack the Gaza region,” the hacker group ThreatSec wrote on
Telegram.

3/5



The group claimed it hacked a major Gaza internet provider called AlfaNet. When asked
about the attack by Wired, AlfaNet said that its communications were disrupted because the
headquarters had been completely destroyed, but the company did not mention any
cyberattacks.

Chaos and uncertainty
As is common with hacktivist activity, not all of the claimed attacks are real. Some groups are
merely seeking attention, while others want to fuel the disinformation and propaganda
surrounding the conflict. Many of the attacks couldn’t be independently verified.

On Sunday, the pro-Iranian hacker group Cyber Avengers claimed it successfully attacked
Dorad power plant in Israel, but researchers discovered that the data posted was actually
stolen by the ransomware gang MosesStaff back in 2022.

“This is yet another example of how hacktivists try to generate hype by posting data from
past attacks and masquerading them as recent ones in order to attract attention,” Group-IB
said.

Digital attacks on Israel began long before Hamas launched its surprise attack.

According to a recent report from Microsoft, Israel is the most frequently targeted country for
cyberattacks in the Middle East. This year, researchers have observed a surge in activity
originating from the Gaza-based group known as Storm-1133, focusing on Israeli energy,
defense, and telecom sectors.

Additionally, Iran, a longstanding ally of Hamas, has conducted influence operations in the
region to support Palestinian resistance, sow panic among Israeli citizens, and counter the
normalization of Arab-Israeli relations, according to Microsoft.

News
Government
Nation-state

Get more insights with the
Recorded Future

Intelligence Cloud.

Learn more.
No previous article

No new articles

4/5



Daryna Antoniuk

Daryna Antoniuk is a freelance reporter for Recorded Future News based in Ukraine. She
writes about cybersecurity startups, cyberattacks in Eastern Europe and the state of the
cyberwar between Ukraine and Russia. She previously was a tech reporter for Forbes
Ukraine. Her work has also been published at Sifted, The Kyiv Independent and The Kyiv
Post.