Hackers Spearphish Corporate Hiring Managers with
Poisoned…

esentire.com/blog/hackers-spearphish-corporate-hiring-managers-with-poisoned-resumes-infecting-them-with-the-
more-eggs-malware

Resources

TRU INTELLIGENCE CENTER

Our Threat Response Unit (TRU) publishes security advisories, blogs, reports, industry
publications and webinars based on its original research and the insights driven through
proactive threat hunts.

View Threat Intelligence Resources →
Company

ABOUT ESENTIRE

About Us

eSentire is The Authority in Managed Detection and Response Services, protecting the
critical data and applications of 1500+ organizations in 80+ countries from known and
unknown cyber threats. Founded in 2001, the company’s mission is to hunt, investigate and
stop cyber threats before they become business disrupting events.

1/15



Read about how we got here
Leadership Work at eSentire
EVENT CALENDAR

Feb

20

NetDeligence Cyber Risk Summit

eSentire will be a Sponsor at the NetDeligence Cyber Risk Summit in Fort…

Mar

28

NetDeligence Cyber Risk Summit

eSentire will be a Sponsor at the NetDeligence Cyber Risk Summit in…

Apr

24

RSA Conference

eSentire is an exhibitor at RSAC 2023. Visit us at Booth 0535.

View Event Calendar →
Partners

PARTNER PROGRAM

e3 Ecosystem

We provide sophisticated cybersecurity solutions for Managed Security Service Providers
(MSSPs), Managed Service Providers (MSPs), and Value-Added Resellers (VARs). Find out
why you should partner with eSentire, the Authority in Managed Detection and Response,
today.

Learn more
Search

Resources

Speak With A Security Expert Now
More_Eggs Came Calling for Easter

2/15



eSentire’s security research team, the Threat Response Unit (TRU), has discovered that the
stealthy more_eggs malware has re-emerged once again this year infecting corporate
entities. More_eggs is malicious software containing several components engineered to steal
valuable credentials, including usernames and passwords for corporate bank accounts,
email accounts and IT administrator accounts, among others.

TRU has uncovered a more_eggs phishing campaign where hackers are posing as job
applicants and luring Corporate Hiring Managers into downloading what they believe are
resumes from job applicants. However, the bogus resumes contain the more_eggs malware.

Thus far, TRU has discovered and shut down four separate security incidents relating to the
current more_eggs campaign. Three of them occurred at the end of March, and the
organizations attacked include a U.S.-based aerospace/defense company; a large UK-based
CPA firm; an international business law firm based out of Canada; and a national Canadian
staffing agency. TRU has produced a full report outlining their findings and how best to
protect against the current more_eggs threat.

Key Takeaways
eSentire's Threat Response Unit (TRU) research team has discovered a new threat
campaign using the more_eggs malware.
More_eggs is a stealthy, lethal malware that contains components engineered to steal
usernames and passwords for corporate bank accounts, email accounts and IT
administrator accounts, among others.
The current more_eggs campaign involves hackers posing as job applicants and luring
Corporate Hiring Managers into downloading what they believe are resumes from job
applicants. In actuality, the resumes contain the more_eggs malware.
TRU has detected and shut down four different more_eggs security incidents recently.
Three of them occurred at the end of March, and they all involve the new variant of
more_eggs. The organizations attacked include a U.S.-based aerospace/defense
company that designs, develops and provides maintenance repair for airline
components; a large UK-based CPA firm; an international business law firm based out
of Canada; and a national Canadian staffing agency.
One year ago, TRU also discovered a spearphishing campaign infecting victims with
more_eggs. However, during that operation, the threat actors were targeting
professionals on LinkedIn who were looking for jobs, as opposed to Hiring Managers
looking for job candidates. The hackers sent the job seekers .zip files disguised as job
offers. When the targets opened the zip file, it led to the installation of more_eggs.

Research Report

3/15



A more_eggs malware campaign has appeared, just as it did last year during the Easter
season. eSentire’s Threat Response Unit (TRU) security research team has discovered a
phishing campaign where hackers are posing as job applicants and luring Corporate Hiring
Managers into downloading what they believe are resumes from job applicants. However, the
bogus resumes contain the more_eggs malware.

More_eggs is a stealthy, lethal malware that has several components engineered to steal
valuable credentials, such as usernames and passwords for corporate bank accounts, email
accounts and IT administrator accounts, among others. Once accessed, the hackers
exfiltrate data from the victim organization, spread to other computer hosts via TeamViewer,
and encrypt files. The Golden Chickens group (aka Venom Spider) is believed to be the
threat operators behind more_eggs. Interestingly, several top financial cybercrime groups,
including the infamous FIN6 gang, Evilnum and the Cobalt Group have employed the
more_eggs malware in their attack campaigns.

The Current More_Eggs Operation – a Déjà Vu of the 2021 LinkedIn
Campaign?
Ironically, around the same time last year in April 2021, TRU discovered a spearphishing
campaign which was infecting victims with more_eggs. However, during that campaign,
rather than posing as hopeful job candidates sending a poisoned resume, the threat actors
targeted professionals on LinkedIn who were looking for jobs. The hackers sent the job
seekers .zip files disguised as job offers. When the targets opened the zip file, it led to the
installation of more_eggs. The threat actors behind the campaign tried enticing the targets
into clicking on the zip file by naming the file after the job seeker’s current job title and adding
“position” at the end.

For example, if the LinkedIn member’s job is listed as ‘Senior Account Executive—
International Freight,’ the malicious zip file would be titled ‘Senior Account Executive —
International Freight position.’ Upon opening the fake job offer, the victim unwittingly initiated
the installation of more_eggs.

eSentire’s TRU Disrupts Attacks Against an Aerospace/Defense
Company, International Law Firm, International CPA Firm and
Staffing Agency
Thus far, in the current more_eggs campaign, the eSentire TRU team has discovered and
shut down four separate security incidents. Three of them occurred at the end of March, and
they all involve the new variant of more_eggs. The organizations attacked include a U.S.-
based aerospace/defense company that designs, develops and provides maintenance repair
for airline components; a large UK-based CPA firm; an international business law firm based
out of Canada; and a national Canadian staffing agency.

4/15



The threat actors behind the current more_ eggs campaign don´t appear to be randomly
targeting companies. For example, the CPA firm and the staffing agency, both list a job
posting on Indeed.com and LinkedIn which match the title of the resume each hiring
manager received. The aerospace/defense company also had a job listed on zip
Recruiter.com which matches the title of the fake resume received.

What are the Hackers After?
Since these more_eggs attacks were disrupted, the TRU team cannot know with certainty
what the end game is for this operation or what threat group is behind these attacks. What
we do know is that this current activity demonstrates a role-reversal from last year’s
more_eggs LinkedIn campaign. We also know that the more_eggs Malware-as-a-Service
(MaaS) is known to be utilized by the very capable FIN6, Evilnum and Cobalt cybercriminals.

Of course, for a threat group to get a foothold into the IT environments of an aerospace/
defense company, an international law firm, an international CPA firm and a national
corporate staffing agency could be very lucrative. Successfully infecting a corporate
employee with the more_eggs malware could potentially enable a threat actor(s) to commit a
variety of cybercrimes including deploying ransomware, stealing intellectual property, stealing
credentials to corporate bank accounts, or committing business email compromise, among
others.

Connection Between FIN6, Evilnum, Cobalt Group and More_Eggs
FIN6 - FIN6 is a financial cybercrime group that primarily steals payment card data and sells
it on underground marketplaces. The FIN6 group first gained notoriety in 2014 for their
attacks against point-of-sale (POS) machines in retail outlets and hospitality companies.
Continuing their quest for credit and debit card data, they later moved on to targeting e-
Commerce companies and stole their credit card data via online skimming. The FIN6 threat
group has also been known to infect some of their victims with ransomware.

Interestingly, intelligence analysts with Visa reported in February2019 that at the end of
2018, FIN6 was specifically targeting numerous e-Commerce companies’ payment servers
and using malicious documents to infect their targets with more_eggs as the initial phase of
their attack.

That activity mirrors a threat campaign that was reported separately in February 2019 by
ProofPoint researchers. In these incidents, threat actors were observed attacking retail,
entertainment and pharmaceutical companies’ online payments systems and using malicious
documents, laden with more_eggs, to target the companies’ employees. The threat actors
sent fake job offers to the employees, cleverly using the job title listed on their LinkedIn
profiles, in their communications. The campaigns reported in February 2019 by Visa and

5/15



ProofPoint could be the same operation or, they could be two separate campaigns. However,
what we do know is that the targets (eCommerce companies’ payment systems) and tools
(more_eggs) were used in both scams.

Later in August 2019, the FIN6 operators launched another malicious campaign, and
researchers believe with this operation FIN6 was actively going after multinational
organizations. Similar to the February 2019 campaign launched against the retail,
entertainment, and pharmaceutical companies; employees were spearphished with fake job
offers. According to security researchers, to gain access to victim environments, the threat
actor began by targeting handpicked employees using LinkedIn messaging and email,
advertising fake jobs to lure recipients into checking into the supposed offers.

Between the end of 2018 and April 2021, there have been three distinct more_eggs LinkedIn
campaigns using the same Modus Operandi. Each campaign targeted corporate employees,
utilized their LinkedIn profile, and then social engineered them with bogus job offers, which
lead to the more_eggs malware.

Evilnum - The Evilnum cybercrime group is best known for compromising financial
technology companies, which are companies that provide stock trading platforms and tools.
Their target is financial information about the targeted FINTECH companies and their
customers. They target items such as spreadsheets and documents with customer lists,
investments and trading operations and credentials for trading software/platforms and
software.The Evilnum group is also known to spearphish employees of the companies they
are targeting and enclose malicious zip files. If executed, the employees get hit with the
more_eggs backdoor, along with other malware.

Cobalt Group - The Cobalt Group is also known to go after financial companies, and it has
repeatedly used the more_eggs backdoor in their attacks.

The Interworkings of More_Eggs
More_eggs is a sophisticated suite of malware components. One of those components is
VenomLink (a component used to trick the victim into installing TerraLoader). TerraLoader is
an intermediate component used to install numerous modules designed to take malicious
actions such as credential theft, lateral movement, and file encryption throughout a victim’s
IT network. A complete analysis of the 2020 version of more_eggs was conducted by Quo
Intelligence, who broke the malware into several modules. Here is a full breakdown:

VenomLNK is a poisoned LNK file. Windows uses LNK files to automate program
execution. More_eggs uses a maliciously-written LNK file to execute TerraLoader by
tricking the user into opening what they think is a document.
TerraLoader loads the other modules from VenomLNK.
TerraPreter provides a Meterpreter (a Metasploit attack payload) shell in memory.

6/15



TerraStealer is an info stealing module used to exfiltrate sensitive data.
TerraTV allows threat actors to hijack TeamViewer for lateral movement.
TerraCrypt is a ransomware plugin for PureLocker ransomware, aka CR1
Ransomware, a lesser-known ransomware.

The social engineering method for this current more_eggs campaign consisted of disguising
a zipped copy of the VenomLNK malware as a job applicant’s resume. A benign PDF resume
is included as well, which serves as a decoy resume, while more_eggs installs TerraLoader.

As with previous more_eggs variants observed by TRU, the malware abuses legitimate
Windows processes to evade detection, alongside a decoy document to trick users. With the
incident involving the accounting firm, an employee of the firm received what they thought
was a candidate’s resume, when in actuality the resume was the VenomLNK malware. Once
VenomLNK was executed, it proceeded to execute TerraLoader so that TerraLoader could
then load various information stealing and intrusion modules of the more_eggs malware
suite. With this campaign however, there are two notable differences:

As stated earlier, rather than targeting hopeful candidates looking for work, the
hackers are targeting businesses looking for employees.
In place of the previously abused Windows process, cmstp.exe – which manages
network connections – more_eggs is abusing ie4uinit.exe, another Windows Process,
to load its malicious plugins.

What’s New with More_Eggs?
The current threat campaign utilizes several similar features TRU observed in the 2021
more_eggs LinkedIn operation including: the VenomLNK module, including a decoy
document, and .lnk file, and multi-phase execution through writing and reading .txt files
(which turned out to be .xml files with JavaScript contents upon inspection). The TerraLoader
equivalent, however, abuses ie4uinit.exe instead of cmstsp.exe, eventually leading to the
abuse of msxsl.exe as we reported in April 2021.

Observations of More_Eggs Operation from Keegan Keplinger,
research and reporting lead with eSentire’s Threat Response Unit
(TRU) security team
“Anti-Virus(AV) is not enough to protect employees and home users from cyber threats.
Because malware like more_eggs takes the so-called fileless approach to evade AV, there is
no malicious executable for AV to detect. Rather, more_eggs achieves execution by passing
malicious code to legitimate windows processes and letting those windows processes do the
work for them.”

7/15



“We tend to see threat campaigns, involving the sophisticated and versatile more_eggs
malware, just a few times a year compared to some other threats. In addition to the
spearphishing component, this indicates to me that threat actors, using the more_eggs
service, are selective and patient.”

“This year the more_eggs operation has flipped the social engineering script, targeting hiring
managers with fake resumes instead of targeting jobseekers with fake job offers.”

“The threat actors behind more_eggs use a scalable, spearphishing approach that
weaponizes expected communications, such as resumes, that match a hiring manager´s
expectations or job offers, targeting hopeful candidates, that match their current or past job
titles.”

Recommendations for Protecting Against More_Eggs
Security Awareness Training for All Employees. Security Awareness training should
be mandated for all company employees. The training should ensure that employees:

Avoid downloading and executing files from unverified sources. For example, be
wary of Word and Excel documents sent from an unknown source or acquired
from the Internet that prompts you to ‘Enable Macros’.
Avoid free versions of paid software.
Always inspect the full URL before downloading files to ensure it matches the
source (e.g., Microsoft Team should come from a Microsoft domain).
Inspect file extensions. Do not trust the filetype logo alone. An executable file can
be disguised as a PDF or office document.
Ensure standard procedures are in place for employees to submit potentially
malicious content for review

Anti-virus isn’t enough. Malware that abuses LOLBINs bypasses binary detection
approaches. Therefore, Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) agents need to be
installed on all hosts. An EDR solution is a necessary technology for detecting threats
such as more_eggs ,and EDR agents must be continuously monitored and updated
with the evolving threat landscape. If not, then critical alerts will not be triaged and
investigated. Managed Detection and Response (MDR) providers offer this service.
Robust and comprehensive MDR services require an AI-powered Extended Detection
and Response (XDR) technology platform so that the hundreds of daily security
signals, generated by an organization’s EDR agents, can be promptly ingested,
analyzed and responded to. Security events which can be resolved through an
automated response are processed, while security events requiring a hands-on
response are handled by the MDR’s cybersecurity analysts and threat hunters.

8/15



Monitor the Threat Landscape. Organizations need relevant threat intelligence, and it
must be actioned in a timely fashion. Additionally, one’s security team needs to be
specifically informed about an organization’s operating environment, working in concert
with one’s security provider.

If you’re not currently engaged with a Managed Detection and Response provider, we highly
recommend you partner with us for security services to disrupt threats before they impact
your business. Want to learn more about how we protect organizations globally? Connect
with an eSentire Security Specialist.

Glossary
More_eggs – a malware suite that includes a social engineering initial access vector
(VenomLNK), a plugin loader (TerraLoader) that loads modules, and functional modules that
are capable of infostealing (TerraStealers) meterpreter shells (TerraPreter), and evasive
lateral movement (TerraTV). See The Interworkings of More_Eggs section for more.

Infostealing – infostealing capabilities in malware can be geared towards a variety of
information targets such as configuration options (like stealing cookies to simulate the
victim’s web sessions), login credentials saved in browsers and files, and credit card
information (saved in browsers).

Meterpreter – meterpreter is a pentesting tool that contains a large library of exploits and
intrusion tools used for different purposes including privilege escalation, credential theft,
lateral movements, and both local and remote code execution.

Golden Chickens – also known as Venom Spider, Golden Chickens has been operating the
more_eggs malware-as-a-service since at least 2018.

LOLBINS – stands for Living-Off-The-Land-Binaries and represents a class of Windows
processes that can be abused in malware, such as more_eggs.

Privilege Escalation – when a threat actor gets higher permissions for an account they’ve
compromised or can get access to a more powerful account.

Lateral Movement – when threat actors can compromise additional, sometimes more
powerful assets (such as Exchange Servers or Domain Controllers) in the organization from
their initial foothold.

Domain Controllers – A central defining infrastructure in most enterprise networks. The
domain controllers help define and manage the internal network and who can access what
on it.

Indicators

9/15



SHA256

0d5b74add9fd68c54d8c7df883fa727d74dacc0bff3c49afd200b914e6051d9a
822e1359b7e7eabc9199a055fd772819176d2e5cae63d0d24787579634d45d 42
86680bef3d1e41f369ab60acf8198496a367fbb7183d5f1104230a74d32705b3  
d6906cb7f9fb0f9cd12943509a1bb5e9409a4547a18f930b071d5c330e6c97f9 
88b0b1d9988fb2a42934f862944be0b32d00cb5e6ffc71e3164fa7c4cacff62d  

LOLBIN ingress:

c:/users/<username>/appdata/roaming/microsoft/msxsl.exe
c:/users/<username>/appdata/roaming/microsoft/ie4uinit.ex e

Account Discovery:
net group /domain "D omain Admins"

Domain Discovery:
nltest /trusted_doma ins

Joe’s Sandbox Analysis:
https://www.joesandbox.co m/analysis/564458/0/html

ATT&CK ID Name Description
Tactic

Execution T1059.003 Windows Command More_eggs has used cmd.exe for
Shell execution.

Execution T1059 Command and ...
Scripting Interpreter

Privilege T1546.003 Windows ENT
Escalation Management

Instrumentation
Event Subscription

Defense T1027 Obfuscated Files or More_eggs's payload has been
Evasion Information encrypted with a key that has the

hostname and processor family
information appended to the end.

Defense T1070.004 File Deletion More_eggs can remove itself from a
Evasion system.

10/15



ATT&CK ID Name Description
Tactic

Defense T1070 Indicator Removal ...
Evasion on Host

Defense T1140 Deobfuscate/Decode More_eggs will decode malware
Evasion Files or Information components that are then dropped to

the system.

Defense T1218.010 Regsvr32 More_eggs has used regsvr32.exe to
Evasion execute the malicious DLL.

Defense T1218 Signed Binary Proxy ...
Evasion Execution

Defense T1220 XSL Script msxsl.exe was used to bypass defenses
Evasion Processing and to invoke Jscript code from an XSL

file.

Defense T1553.002 Code Signing More_eggs has used a signed binary
Evasion shellcode loader and a signed Dynamic

Link Library (DLL) to create a reverse
shell.

Defense T1553 Subvert Trust ..
Evasion Controls

Discovery T1016.001 Internet Connection More_eggs has the capability to gather
Discovery the IP address from the victim's

machine.

Discovery T1016 System Network ...
Configuration
Discovery

Discovery T1033 System Owner/User More_eggs has the capability to gather
Discovery the username from the victim's machine.

11/15



ATT&CK ID Name Description
Tactic

Discovery T1069.002 Domain Groups net group /domain "Domain Admins"
was used to gather information about
domain groups

Discovery T1069 Permission Groups ...
Discovery

Discovery T1082 System Information More_eggs has the capability to gather
Discovery the OS version and computer name.

Discovery T1482 Domain Trust nltest /trusted_domains was used to
Discovery gather domain trust information

Discovery T1518.001 Security Software More_eggs can obtain information on
Discovery installed anti-malware programs.

Discovery T1518 Software Discovery ...

Command T1071.001 Web Protocols More_eggs uses HTTPS for C2.
and
Control

Command T1071 Application Layer ...
and Protocol
Control

Command T1105 Ingress Tool Transfer More_eggs can download and launch
and additional payloads. (msxsl.exe was
Control downloaded & installed)

Command T1132.001 Standard Encoding More_eggs has used basE91 encoding,
and along with encryption, for C2
Control communication.

Command T1132 Data Encoding ...
and
Control

12/15



ATT&CK ID Name Description
Tactic

Command T1573.001 Symmetric More_eggs has used an RC4-based
and Cryptography encryption method for its C2
Control communications.

Command T1573 Encrypted Channel ...
and
Control

Skip To:
Key Takeaways
Research Report
What are the Hackers After?
Connection Between FIN6, Evilnum, Cobalt Group and More_Eggs
The Interworkings of More_Eggs
What’s New with More_Eggs?
Recommendations for Protecting Against More_Eggs
Glossary

View Most Recent Blogs

13/15



eSentire Threat Response Unit (TRU)
Our industry-renowned Threat Response Unit (TRU) is an elite team of threat hunters and
researchers, that supports our 24/7 Security Operations Centers (SOCs), builds detection
models across our Atlas XDR Cloud Platform, and works as an extension of your security
team to continuously improve our Managed Detection and Response service. TRU has been
recognized for its threat hunting, original research and content development capabilities.
TRU is strategically organized into cross-functional groups to protect you against advanced
and emerging threats, allowing your organization to gain leading threat intelligence and
incredible cybersecurity acumen.

14/15



Cookies allow us to deliver the best possible experience for you on our website - by
continuing to use our website or by closing this box, you are consenting to our use of
cookies. Visit our Privacy Policy to learn more.

Accept

The Authority in Managed Detection and Response.
2023 eSentire, Inc. All Rights Reserved.