Hidden Tear Ransomware Developer Blackmailed by
Malware Developers using his Code

bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/hidden-tear-ransomware-developer-blackmailed-by-malware-developers-using-
his-code/

Lawrence Abrams

By
Lawrence Abrams

January 25, 2016
06:58 PM
1

In a post on the BleepingComputer.com forums, the developer of the Magic Ransomware
infection is blackmailing the author of the open source Hidden Tear and EDA2 Ransomware
Project. The malware developer's demands are simple; take down the Hidden Tear project
or the Magic ransomware's victims lose their decryption keys.

This past weekend we reported about the Magic ransomware, which utilized the publicly
posted open source EDA2 ransomware project. Unfortunately, the Command and Control
servers for the Magic ransomware were hosted on free web hosting sites and were deleted
along with the decryption keys. When this happened, Utku Sen, the developer of the open
source Hidden Tear and EDA ransomware projects, realized making EDA2 publicly
available as an educational project was a mistake and pulled it from github so it couldn't be
used in the future.

Today, in our Magic Ransomware Support Topic, a user named jeanclaudevandan, who
appears to the ransomware developer, posted that they felt bad for one of the victim's who
lost pictures of his newborn baby and would give him his decryption key for free.

Magic Ransomware Developer Offering Key for Free
Soon after, the victim reported that they received the key and we tested that we could
indeed use it to decrypt their files. Later in the day, Utku Sen posted in our forum as well
stating that he would help as much as possible those who were affected by ransomware

1/3



that utilized his project.  In response, the user jeanclaudevandan wrote that they would
release all the keys if Utku also took down his still visible Hidden Tear ransomware project
and paid the malware developer 3 bitcoins.

Second post by the Malware Developer
The reality is that this is a win-win situation. If the victim's could get their keys back and the
Hidden Tear project, no matter how vulnerable it is, out of public view, everyone would
benefit. After further posting back and forth, the malware developer agreed to release all of
the keys if Utku would just take down the Hidden Tear program.

Third post by the Malware Developer
On one hand, taking down the Hidden Tear project is in the best interests for everyone and
the victim's of the magic ransomware get their keys back.  On the other hand, giving into
the demands of ransomware developers is never a wise policy and may embolden malware
developers to make similar threats in the future. At this point we are waiting to hear from
Utku Sen about what his next move will be.

Related Articles:
Cactus ransomware exploiting Qlik Sense flaws to breach networks

Black Basta ransomware made over $100 million from extortion

Toronto Public Library confirms data stolen in ransomware attack

Qilin ransomware claims attack on automotive giant Yanfeng

Police dismantle ransomware group behind attacks in 71 countries

EDA2

2/3



HiddenTear
Ransomware

Lawrence Abrams
Lawrence Abrams is the owner and Editor in Chief of BleepingComputer.com. Lawrence's
area of expertise includes Windows, malware removal, and computer forensics. Lawrence
Abrams is a co-author of the Winternals Defragmentation, Recovery, and Administration
Field Guide and the technical editor for Rootkits for Dummies.

Previous Article
Next Article

Comments
Retry2 Photo

Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now

You may also like: