HildaCrypt Ransomware Developer Releases Decryption
Keys

bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/hildacrypt-ransomware-developer-releases-decryption-keys/

Lawrence Abrams

By
Lawrence Abrams

October 5, 2019
04:47 PM
4

The developer behind the HildaCrypt Ransomware has decided to release the
ransomware's private decryption keys. With these keys a decryptor can be made that would
allow any potential victims to recover their files for free.

When a new ransomware or a variant is discovered, it is very common for researchers to
post about them on Twitter.  This week, researcher GrujaRS discovered a new ransomware
variant and identified it as a STOP variant.

1/5



Last night, the developer contacted the researcher to tell him that it was an incorrect
identification and that it was actually a variant of the HildaCrypt Ransomware.

As part of this communication, the developer decided to also release the master private
decryption keys for the ransomware.

With these keys a decryptor can be made that allows a victim to get their files back for free.

2/5



HildaCrypt Ransomware Decryption Keys
After giving the keys to Michael Gillespie, he confirmed they were legitimate released a
decryptor using them.

For those who wish to view the keys or create a decryptor based on them, they can be
accessed here.

HildaCrypt was created for fun
BleepingComputer had a conversation with the ransomware developer last night and was
told that HildaCrypt was only made for fun and "it was mainly an educational thing really".

They further told us "hildacrypt never was used on anyone" and that they released the keys
in case "some kid gets a hold of these binaries I hope the keys would be of some use".

After further discussion, the developer intimated that they were probably going to stop
development of the ransomware and instead focus on getting involved in more legitimate
efforts of the cybersecurity community.

Related Articles:
HelloKitty ransomware source code leaked on hacking forum

TransForm says ransomware data breach affects 267,000 patients

Critical Atlassian Confluence bug exploited in Cerber ransomware attacks

3/5



US sanctions Russian who laundered money for Ryuk ransomware affiliate

TellYouThePass ransomware joins Apache ActiveMQ RCE attacks

Decryptor
HildaCrypt
Ransomware

Lawrence Abrams
Lawrence Abrams is the owner and Editor in Chief of BleepingComputer.com. Lawrence's
area of expertise includes Windows, malware removal, and computer forensics. Lawrence
Abrams is a co-author of the Winternals Defragmentation, Recovery, and Administration
Field Guide and the technical editor for Rootkits for Dummies.

Previous Article
Next Article

Comments
nkdev Photo
GT500 Photo
cybercynic Photo

4/5



matutn Photo
matutn - 4 years ago

Hi, do you have any information about ".coot". 
I tried with many decryptors like rannohdecrypt or, trend micro (cause I read it could be
"CryptXXX V...", then I read that could be "hildacrypt" and used emsisoft decryptor, but
nothing is working. 
The note says:  
ATTENTION!  

Don't worry, you can return all your files!
All your files like photos, databases, doc uments and other important are encrypted
with strongest encryption and unique key.
The only method of recovering files is to p urchase decrypt tool and unique key for
you.
This  software will decrypt all your encrypted files.
What guarantees you have?  
You can send one of your en crypted file from your PC and we decrypt it for free.
But we can decrypt only 1 file for free. File must not contain valuable information .
You can get and look video overview decrypt tool:  
https://we.tl/t-IbdGyCKhdr  
Price of private key and de crypt software is $980.
Discount 50% available if you contact us first 72 h ours, that's price for you is $490.
Please note that you'll never restore your data without payment.  
Check your e-mail "Spam" or "Junk" folder if you don't get answe r more than 6 hours.

thx

Post a Comment Community Rules
You need to login in order to post a comment
Not a member yet? Register Now

You may also like: